

===== PAGE 1 =====
Exchange Rates and Monetary Policy
with Heterogeneous Agents:
Sizing up the Real Income Channel
Adrien Auclert* Matthew Rognlie† Martin Souchier‡ Ludwig Straub§
August 2024
Abstract
Introducing heterogeneous households into a New Keynesian small open econ-
omy model amplifies thereal income channelof exchange rates: the rise in import prices
from a depreciation lowers households’ real income, and leads them to cut back on
spending. When the sum of import and export elasticities is one, this channel is offset
by a larger Keynesian multiplier, heterogeneity is irrelevant, and expenditure switch-
ing drives the output response. With plausibly lower short-term elasticities, however,
the real income channel dominates, and the depreciation can be contractionary for
output. This weakens monetary transmission and creates a dilemma for policymak-
ers facing capital outflows. Endogenous portfolios and delayed import price pass-
through weaken the real income channel, while heterogeneous consumption baskets
can strengthen it.
*Stanford University, CEPR and NBER. Email: aauclert@stanford.edu.
†Northwestern University and NBER. Email: matthew.rognlie@northwestern.edu.
‡Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania. Email: souchier@wharton.upenn.edu.
§Harvard University, CEPR and NBER. Email: ludwigstraub@fas.harvard.edu.
We are grateful to the editor (Mike Golosov), five anonymous referees, as well as George Alessandria,
Manuel Amador, Luigi Bocola, Ariel Burstein, Laura Castillo-Martínez, Edouard Challe, Julian di Giovanni,
Sebastian Fanelli, Mark Gertler, Pierre-Olivier Gourinchas, Seungki Hong, Guido Lorenzoni, Oleg Itskhoki,
Sebnem Kalemli-Özcan, Matteo Maggiori, Kurt Mitman, Tommaso Monacelli, Brent Neiman, Pablo Ot-
tonello, Diego Perez, Fabrizio Perri, Jesse Schreger, Vincent Sterk and Iván Werning for helpful comments.
We thank Andrés Blanco, Andrés Drenik and Emilio Zaratiegui for providing us with estimates of unequal
income incidence. Jan Ertl provided excellent research assistance. Martin thanks Yale University for its hos-
pitality during part of this research. This research is supported by the National Science Foundation grant
awards SES-1851717 and SES-2042691.
1

===== PAGE 2 =====
1 Introduction
How do open economies respond to exchange rate shocks, such as those caused by cap-
ital flows? What is the role of exchange rates in monetary transmission? The canonical
answers to these questions are derived from models with a representative agent. 1 In
these models, marginal propensities to consume are small, muting the income effects of
exchange rates for shocks at business cycle frequencies.
In this paper, we revisit these questions in a Heterogeneous-Agent New Keynesian
model that features higher marginal propensities to consume, in line with the empirical
evidence.2 We first provide novel neutrality results under which heterogeneity is irrel-
evant. We then argue that, in the empirically relevant case, heterogeneity generates a
powerful real income channel that limits or even undoes the expansionary effects of de-
preciations and weakens monetary transmission. This provides an explanation for the
common policy view that depreciations can cause declines in consumption or output,
even when foreign currency borrowing is not an issue.3
To isolate the forces that make heterogeneity relevant, we take as our benchmark the
canonical representative-agent, complete markets (RA-CM) model of Galí and Monacelli
(2005). This is a model in which markets are complete both within and across countries.
Departing from complete markets, we consider incomplete markets with respect to id-
iosyncratic risk, and potentially with respect to aggregate risk as well. A large mass of
domestic households faces idiosyncratic income uncertainty and borrowing constraints;
they cannot insure the idiosyncratic risk, but may be able to form asset portfolios to hedge
aggregate risk. We consider two main types of aggregate shocks: exchange rate shocks
(shocks to the foreign interest rate that do not affect foreign demand) and domestic mon-
etary policy shocks.
For exchange rate shocks, we show, using a sequence-space representation of the
model (Auclert, Bardóczy, Rognlie and Straub 2021, Auclert, Rognlie and Straub 2024a)
that the output response combines three effects: an expenditure switching channel, a real
1See Obstfeld and Rogoff (1995), Corsetti and Pesenti (2001), Clarida, Galí and Gertler (2002) and Galí
and Monacelli (2005), as well as the textbook treatments in Galí (2008) and Uribe and Schmitt-Grohé (2017).
2High MPCs have been documented in advanced economies and emerging markets alike, see for in-
stance Johnson, Parker and Souleles (2006) for the United States, Jappelli and Pistaferri (2014) for Italy,
Fagereng, Holm and Natvik (2021) for Norway, and Hong (2023) for Peru.
3On contractionary devaluations, Frankel (2005) says: “Why are devaluations so costly? Many of the
currency crises of the last 10 years have been associated with output loss. Is this, as alleged, because of ex-
cessive reliance on raising the interest rate as a policy response? More likely, it is because of contractionary
effects of devaluation.” Although widespread, this policy view is difficult to back up empirically because
it is challenging to identify exogenous exchange rate shocks in the data. This makes it important to study
the conditions under which contractionary depreciations can emerge in microfounded general equilibrium
models.
2

===== PAGE 3 =====
income channel, and a Keynesian multiplier channel. The RA-CM model only has expen-
diture switching, whose magnitude is governed by the composite parameter χ, equal to
the sum of the price elasticities of imports and exports (the trade elasticity).4 This channel
is unchanged in the heterogeneous agent (HA) model. Instead, there are two new forces,
both of which work through households’ real income: the “real income channel” through
which rising import prices reduce aggregate consumption, and the multiplier on aggre-
gate output. Since the multiplier depends on the overall output response, its importance
grows with χ. Our first neutrality result states that, when χ = 1, the two new forces
exactly cancel, and the RA-CM and HA models have identical responses to any exchange
rate shock—in fact, the response is independent of the market structure both across and
within countries. Intuitively, when the trade elasticity is equal to 1, the rise in output
from expenditure switching is exactly enough to offset rising import prices, leaving each
household’s real income and therefore consumption unchanged. The trade balance also
remains constant, as reallocation from foreign to domestic goods offsets higher prices on
the foreign goods.
When the trade elasticityχ is below 1 instead, the real income channel dominates. This
makes the output response in the HA model lower than in the RA-CM model. For χ suf-
ficiently below one, this response turns negative: a contractionary depreciation emerges.
Qualitatively, this effect is at play even in a representative agent model with incomplete
market across countries (RA-IM), and in a heterogeneous agent model in which house-
holds can form portfolios to hedge aggregate risk (HA-CM). But we show that it is quanti-
tatively much larger with heterogeneous agents who cannot insure idiosyncratic risk and
who cannot form portfolios to hedge against aggregate risk (HA-IM). In other words, the
combination of heterogeneity and incomplete markets “sizes up” the real income channel
that Díaz-Alejandro (1963), Cooper (1968) and Krugman and Taylor (1978) had empha-
sized as a potential source of contractionary devaluations. 5 By contrast, when χ > 1,
the multiplier effect dominates, and depreciations are even more expansionary. Hence,
our theoretical result is one of complementarity between heterogeneity/incomplete mar-
kets and trade elasticities. Later, we argue that the relevant empirical counterpart of χ is
the short-run trade elasticity, which tends to be less than 1.
Turning to monetary policy, we show that there also exists a threshold level of the
4This is the elasticity that enters the well-known Marshall-Lerner condition, which states that, in par-
tial equilibrium, depreciations improve the trade balance when χ > 1. We show that in our model, this
condition also applies in general equilibrium.
5We show that a two agent (TA) model calibrated to the same MPCs as our HA-IM model gener-
ates much smaller contractionary depreciations than our HA-IM model due to the smaller “intertemporal
marginal propensities to consume” (Auclert, Rognlie and Straub 2024a).
3

===== PAGE 4 =====
trade elasticity for which heterogeneity is irrelevant. This result requires an elasticity of
intertemporal substitution of 1, and a trade elasticity of χ = 2 − α, with α ∈ (0, 1) de-
noting the openness of the country. As in the exchange rate case, this involves a constant
trade balance; here we need a higher trade elasticity χ to offset the increase in import de-
mand from rising consumption in a monetary expansion. The χ = 2 − α level covers the
Cole-Obstfeld parametrization, in which both domestic and foreign agents have unitary
elasticities of substitution. In fact, our neutrality result is reminiscent of the original Cole
and Obstfeld (1991) result, which established that with Cobb-Douglas elasticities, market
structure was irrelevant for the effect of productivity shocks. Our result shows that the
same is true for monetary policy shocks, and also for a much broader set of market struc-
tures, including within-country incomplete markets with respect to idiosyncratic shocks.
In that sense, our result generalizes Werning (2015)’s seminal neutrality result for closed
economies to an open economy setting.6
Away from this benchmark, when χ < 2 − α, the output response is lower in the HA-
IM model than in the RA-CM model—driven in part by the real income effect. One way
to understand this result is that, with elasticities below Cobb-Douglas, a temporary mon-
etary expansion induces a current account deficit, as in Tille (2001). The resulting neg-
ative net foreign asset position must be repaid later. However, absent further monetary
stimulus, repayment must occur without a depreciated exchange rate, and hence without
increased exports. Instead, the trade balance improves via depressed imports—which
are achieved through a domestic contraction. Thus, in an HA model with χ < 2 − α,
monetary easing raises current demand at the expense of a future contraction: it “steals
demand from the future”. This mechanism is reminiscent of the effects of durable goods
or indebted demand in closed economies (McKay and Wieland, 2021, Mian, Straub and
Sufi, 2021), but it operates through the current account.
Our benchmark model allows for clean analytical results, but it says nothing of the
empirically relevant level of the trade elasticity χ. A simple quantification is difficult be-
cause trade elasticities are well documented to be dynamic: smaller in the short run than
in the medium to long run.7 We address this shortcoming of our baseline model by build-
ing a quantitative extension. In it, we incorporate a tractable model ofdelayed substitution,
in which consumers can only substitute between goods with a given Calvo probability. 8
6In appendix C.5, we show that our neutrality result can also be extended to productivity shocks, as in
the original Cole and Obstfeld (1991) paper.
7See, e.g., Hooper, Johnson and Marquez (2000), Feenstra, Luck, Obstfeld and Russ (2017), Fitzgerald
and Haller (2018), Auer, Burstein, Erhardt and Lein (2019), Auer, Burstein and Lein (2021), Amiti, Itskhoki
and Konings (2022), and Boehm, Levchenko and Pandalai-Nayar (2023).
8This approach complements a structural literature on models of delayed adjustment in the exporting
and importing decisions of firms, as in e.g., Baldwin (1988), Baldwin and Krugman (1989), Ruhl (2008),
4

===== PAGE 5 =====
Calibrating to the evidence in Boehm, Levchenko and Pandalai-Nayar (2023), we find
that our model generates a “ J curve”, with a trade elasticity that is smaller than 1 in the
short-run, but larger than 1 in the long-run. 9 As a consequence, our quantitative model
finds that transitory depreciation shocks are contractionary in the short run.
Aside from accounting for dynamic trade elasticities, the quantitative model also al-
lows us to speak to several other issues: we show that when consumption baskets of the
poor are skewed towards imported goods (as in e.g. Cravino and Levchenko, 2017) or
when recessions disproportionately affect the poor (as in Blanco, Drenik and Zaratiegui,
2024), the real income channel is amplified and a depreciation is more likely to be con-
tractionary; we find that the real income channel is larger than a balance sheet channel
calibrated to the net currency exposure of a typical country (which has shrunk in recent
decades, see e.g. Lane and Shambaugh 2010); and we find that the real income channel is
stronger the faster exchange rates pass through to retail prices of imported goods—and
hence, likely stronger in emerging markets.
Our model can speak to the common perception of a dilemma for policymakers facing
capital outflows—captured in our model as exchange rate depreciation shocks. On the
one hand, outflows are contractionary, and fighting them with accommodative monetary
policy exacerbates the depreciation. On the other hand, stabilizing the exchange rate by
tightening monetary policy comes with the negative side effects of higher interest rates
domestically, as in Gertler, Gilchrist and Natalucci (2007) and Gourinchas (2018). We
use our model to derive the unique output-stabilizing monetary policy. In our baseline
parameterization, we find that it actually involves an interest rate cut and an even larger
depreciation, but in a lower trade elasticity parameterization, it involves an interest rate
hike that mitigates the depreciation instead.
Our paper is connected to an empirical literature that estimates the aggregate effects
of devaluations on output (e.g. Kamin and Rogers 2000, An, Kim and Ren 2014, Fukui,
Nakamura and Steinsson 2023). This literature has reached mixed conclusions about the
sign of the effect of devaluations on output. Beyond the empirical difficulty of identify-
ing exchange rate shocks—devaluations are often caused by shocks that also contract the
economy—this is likely due to the fact that the aggregate effect of exchange rate shocks
on output depends on a large number of factors that are difficult to control for. By per-
forming comparative statics in a quantitatively realistic heterogeneous-agent New Key-
nesian model on a variety of parameters—including the monetary policy response, im-
Drozd and Nosal (2012), Alessandria and Choi (2021). See Alessandria, Arkolakis and Ruhl (2021) for a
review of this literature.
9See Backus, Kehoe and Kydland (1994) for an alternative, equilibrium model of the J curve.
5

===== PAGE 6 =====
port price pass-through, trade elasticity, and many others—our paper can help rationalize
these mixed findings and provide useful controls for this literature.
Our paper relates to a literature on the importance of the real income channel, which
was studied by Díaz-Alejandro (1963), Cooper (1968) and Krugman and Taylor (1978) in
the context of IS-LM models. It is well understood from this literature that when the trade
elasticity is low, a depreciation can lower consumption through changes in the terms of
trade. In fact, a textbook result from the Old Keynesian open-economy theory (Polak
1947, Harberger 1950, Laursen and Metzler 1950), as summarized in Dornbusch (1980), is
that depreciations are contractionary for output whenever the Marshall-Lerner condition
is not satisfied (χ < 1 in our notation). We show that in a micro-founded model, contrac-
tionary depreciations are in fact less likely than implied by this framework, and that their
magnitude depends crucially on heterogeneity and incomplete markets.
Modern literature has also studied the real income channel. Working with a first-
generation new open economy model with incomplete markets and prices set one period
in advance, Corsetti and Pesenti (2001) analytically showed that monetary accommoda-
tions have a “beggar-thyself effect” through this channel. Their model featured unitary
elasticities, so while this effect reduced country welfare, it did not lower aggregate con-
sumption or output. Later, Tille (2001) and Corsetti, Pesenti, Roubini and Tille (2000)
extended this model to feature a non-unitary elasticity substitution between goods and
noted that, when this elasticity was low enough, this model allowed for the possibility
of a devaluation to reduce consumption and output. Our paper confirms this qualita-
tive result for RA-IM, but shows the effect is quantitatively small unless one increases
the MPC, for instance with HA-IM. Finally, Corsetti, Dedola and Leduc (2008) show in a
model without nominal rigidities that a negative productivity shock generates a depreci-
ation together with a fall in consumption and output when the trade elasticity is low; this
is due to the real income channel generating a fall in demand for home goods in spite of
the depreciation. Relative to these papers, ours clarifies the importance of heterogeneity
and market incompleteness in determining the magnitude of the real income channel.
Our paper also relates to a large international macro literature that, building on the
original Cole and Obstfeld (1991) result, studies how the structure of asset markets mat-
ters for the aggregate effects of international shocks (Baxter and Crucini 1995, Heathcote
and Perri 2002). In the context of a representative-agent model, Itskhoki (2021) general-
izes the Cole-Obstfeld equivalence between complete markets and financial autarky to a
broader range of shocks, including monetary policy shocks. We provide similar neutrality
results for monetary policy and exchange rate shocks, showing that this requires different
trade elasticities, and consider a broader set of market structures, including complete and
6

===== PAGE 7 =====
incomplete markets both within and across countries.
Finally, our paper relates to an emerging literature that analyzes the effects of interna-
tional shocks in the context of heterogeneous-agent, New Keynesian open economy mod-
els.10 Most of this literature has focused on wealth effects through households’ balance
sheets. de Ferra, Mitman and Romei (2020) study the effects of sudden stops in capital
inflows when households hold foreign currency debt. They show that sudden stops lead
to a contraction of consumption when monetary policy lets the exchange rate depreciate.
Guo, Ottonello and Perez (2023) study the distributional effects of international shocks
when agents differ by their sector of work and their financial integration, and show that
unequal access to international financial markets is the main driver of inequality in re-
sponse to domestic and international shocks. Otten (2021) study the redistributive effects
of shocks under different exchange rate regimes when households hold foreign-currency
debt. Zhou (2022) studies the effects of foreign monetary policy shocks in a model where
the foreign-currency debt exposure of households is disciplined with microdata. Other
papers with heterogeneous agents include Giagheddu (2020), who compares the distri-
butional effects of fiscal devaluations to that of nominal devaluations, Druedahl, Ravn,
Sunder-Plassmann, Sundram and Waldstrøm (2022), who study the transmission of for-
eign demand shocks, and Oskolkov (2023), who compares the dynamics of inequality
under different exchange rate regimes. Relative to these papers, ours focuses on the real
income channel and provides analytical results on when heterogeneity and market incom-
pleteness matter and when they do not. We show that depreciations can be contractionary
even if households do not hold foreign currency debt.
Layout. Section 2 sets up our baseline heterogeneous-agent model, with and without
endogenous portfolios. Section 3 considers the effect of exchange rate shocks, while sec-
tion 4 considers the transmission of monetary policy. Section 5 introduces our quanti-
tative model, which we use to study the role of delayed substitution, delayed import
price pass-through, heterogeneous consumption baskets, unequal incidence of aggregate
shocks, and the response of monetary policy to contractionary capital outflows. Appen-
dices A–D contain additional model details and proofs by section. Appendix E presents
four alternative models in which the real income channel has a similar effect as in our
baseline: one with dollar currency pricing, one with nontraded goods, one with imported
intermediates, and one in which the country is a commodity exporter.
10See Farhi and Werning (2016), Farhi and Werning (2017), and Cugat (2022) for New Keynesian open
economy models with two agents.
7

===== PAGE 8 =====
2 Baseline model
Our model merges two New Keynesian traditions: the Heterogeneous-Agent (“HANK”)
framework for closed economies and the New Open Economy macro framework for open
economies. Specifically, our model builds on the open-economy model of Galí and Mona-
celli (2005). To this model we add heterogeneity on the household side and sticky wages,
as in Auclert, Rognlie and Straub (2024a). We additionally allow for both incomplete and
complete markets with respect to aggregate risk: with incomplete markets, household
portfolios are chosen independently of aggregate risk; with complete markets, house-
holds use their portfolios to hedge aggregate risk. This nests the market structures con-
sidered in the international macro literature.11
2.1 Model setup
Time is discrete and the horizon is infinite. We focus directly on the problem of a small
open economy understood, as in Galí and Monacelli (2005), as part of a world economy
consisting of a continuum of countries. 12 We denote variables with a star superscript
when they correspond to the world economy as a whole. We consider perfect-foresight
impulse responses to aggregate shocks starting from a steady state at date 0, where for the
moment these shocks are unanticipated (the case of incomplete markets with respect to
aggregate risk, or “MIT shocks”). We use the solution method from Boppart, Krusell and
Mitman (2018) and Auclert et al. (2021), which linearizes with respect to these shocks.
There are two goods in the economy: domestically produced “home” goods H, which
can be exported, and “foreign” goods F, which are produced abroad and imported.
Domestic households. The economy is populated by heterogeneous households that
may be subject to idiosyncratic income risk in the form of productivity shocks eit, which
follow a first-order Markov chain with meanEeit = 1. Households can invest their wealth
in three assets: a domestic stock, a domestic nominal bond, and a foreign nominal bond.
The returns on these assets cannot be indexed to idiosyncratic productivity.
A household with incoming stock positions, domestic bond positionBH, foreign bond
position BF, and productivity level e at any time t optimally chooses her consumption of
11Galí and Monacelli (2005) is a complete markets representative-agent model. For incomplete markets
models with a representative agent, see e.g. Obstfeld and Rogoff (1995) and Corsetti and Pesenti (2001);
with two agents see e.g. Cugat (2022); and with heterogeneous agents see e.g. de Ferra, Mitman and Romei
(2020).
12See Aggarwal, Auclert, Rognlie and Straub (2023) for a version of this model with N large countries.
8

===== PAGE 9 =====
the two goods, cH, cF, and position in each asset s′, BH′, BF′ for next period by solving the
dynamic program
˜Vt

s, BH, BF, e

= max
cF,cH,s′,BH′,BF′
u (cF, cH) − v (Nt) + βEt
h
˜Vt+1

s′, BH′, BF′, e′

|e
i
s.t. PFtcF + PHtcH + Pts′ + BH′ + EtBF′ (1)
= (Pt + Dt) s + (1 + ιt−1) BH +
 
1 + ι∗
t−1

EtBF + eWtNt
Pts + BH′ + EtBF′ ≥ 0
Here, PFt is the price of foreign goods in domestic currency units, PHt is the price of
domestic goods, Pt is the nominal stock price, Et is the nominal exchange rate, Dt the
nominal dividend, ιt is the nominal interest rate on home bonds, ι∗
t the nominal interest
rate on foreign bonds, Wt is the nominal wage, and Nt denotes labor supplied by house-
holds, determined by union demand as specified below. The exchange rate Et is defined
as the price of the foreign currency in units of domestic currency, so that an increase in
Et indicates a nominal depreciation at home. The household is subject to a borrowing
constraint on its net asset position.
We assume that households share the common per period utility function
u (cF, cH) = c1−σ
1 − σ, v (N) = ψ N1+φ
1 + φ (2)
where c is the CES consumption basket13
c =
h
α1/ηc(η−1)/η
F + (1 − α)1/η c(η−1)/η
H
iη/(η−1)
(3)
The parameter σ > 0 is the inverse elasticity of intertemporal substitution, φ > 0 the
inverse Frisch elasticity of labor supply, andη > 0 is the elasticity of substitution between
home and foreign goods. α ∈ (0, 1) measures the openness of the economy (1 − α is the
degree of home bias in preferences). ψ > 0 is a normalization constant. Given these
preferences, the consumer price index is
Pt ≡
h
αP1−η
Ft + (1 − α)P1−η
Ht
i1/(1−η)
(4)
13Since CES preferences are homothetic, households have the same consumption basket and share the
same price index. Section 5 considers non-homothetic preferences, under which poor households can con-
sume foreign goods in different proportions than rich households.
9

===== PAGE 10 =====
Since there is no aggregate uncertainty, by no arbitrage,14 for any t ≥ 0, all assets must
have equal nominal returns from t to t + 1:
1 + ιt = (1 + ι∗
t ) Et+1
Et
= Pt+1 + Dt+1
Pt
(5)
It is useful to express these equations in real terms. Denote by P∗
t the price index abroad,
and by Qt the real exchange rate, defined as the price of a foreign consumption basket
relative to a domestic consumption basket, that is:
Qt ≡ EtP∗
t
Pt
(6)
With this convention, an increase in Qt indicates a real depreciation at home. Define the
real domestic bond return from t to t + 1 as 1 + rt ≡ (1 + ιt) Pt
Pt+1
, the real foreign bond
return as 1 + r∗
t ≡ (1 + ι∗
t ) P∗
t
P∗
t+1
, the real stock price as pt ≡ Pt
Pt , and the real dividend as
dt ≡ Dt
Pt . Then we can rewrite (5) as
1 + rt = (1 + r∗
t ) Qt+1
Qt
= pt+1 + dt+1
pt
(7)
The first equations in (5) and (7) are the nominal and real uncovered interest parity (UIP)
conditions, respectively. The second equations are the asset pricing equations for the
stock.
Using the fact that all assets have common real return rt, we can simplify the house-
hold problem (1). Denote by a′
t the real value of end-of-period assets, and by ap
t the real
value of beginning-of-period assets including returns. These are defined respectively as
a′
t ≡ Pts′ + BH′ + EtBF′
Pt
, ap
t ≡ (Pt + Dt) s + (1 + ιt−1) BH +
 
1 + ι∗
t−1

EtBF
Pt
(8)
Using these definitions, we can rewrite (1) in the simple canonical form
Vt (ap, e) = max
c,a′
u (c) − v (Nt) + βEt

Vt+1
 
(1 + rt) a′, e′
|e

s.t. c + a′ = ap + eWt
Pt
Nt (9)
a′ ≥ 0
14Since only the total value of assets enters the constraints in (1), agents could achieve unboundedly high
returns if (5) did not hold by taking a levered position in the higher-return asset.
10

===== PAGE 11 =====
Denote the consumption and asset policy functions that solve (9) byct (ap, e) and a′
t (ap, e).
Let cF (ap, e) and cH (ap, e) be equal to:
cFt (ap, e) = α
 PFt
Pt
−η
ct (ap, e) (10)
cHt (ap, e) = (1 − α)
 PHt
Pt
−η
ct (ap, e) (11)
Then, the policy functions ˜cHt
 
s, BH, BF, e

, ˜cFt
 
s, BH, BF, e

that solve the original prob-
lem in (1) are respectively given by cHt
 
ap
t , e

and cFt
 
ap
t , e

, where ap
t is given in (8);
and the policy functions ˜s′
t
 
s, BH, BF, e

, ˜BF′
t
 
s, BH, BF, e

and ˜BH′
t
 
s, BH, BF, e

can take
any value that respects the constraint Pt ˜s′
t + ˜BH′
t + ˜BF′
t = Pta′
t
 
ap
t , e

. Because of per-
fect foresight, the consumption-savings choice is well defined, but the portfolio choice is
indeterminate.
Let Dt (Ap, e) denote the measure giving the joint distribution over beginning-of-
period assets and productivity. We define aggregate consumption asCt ≡R
ct (ap, e) dDt (ap, e)
and aggregate assets as At ≡R
at (ap, e) dDt (ap, e).
At date 0, there is an exogenous initial distribution deD0
 
s, BH, BF, e

over stocks, do-
mestic bonds, foreign bonds, and productivity. Given initial prices P0, P0, E0, dividends
D0, and the expression for ap
0 in (8), there is an induced distribution dD0 (ap, e) over
beginning-of-period assets at date 0. Then, for t ≥ 1, the optimal policy from (9) induces
a law of motion from Dt−1 to Dt,15 which recursively determines the distribution Dt at all
dates. This fully characterizes the solution to the household problem for all periodst ≥ 0.
Rest-of-the-world households. Households in the rest of the world face the same prob-
lem as domestic households, but for simplicity we assume that there is a single type of
agent in the rest of the world facing no idiosyncratic risk or constraints on assets. That
is, each country in the rest of the world has a representative agent with discount factor
(β∗)t Bt, where Bt is an exogenous shifter of intertemporal preferences. As in Galí and
Monacelli (2005), the basket of foreign goods in each country is itself a CES aggregator of
goods from all countries, with an elasticity of substitution of γ > 0 (see appendix A.1 for
details). Let P∗
Ht denote the price in the rest of the world for goods produced in the home
country, and C∗
t denote aggregate consumption in the rest of the world. Then, export
15Namely, Dt (Ap′, e′) = ∑e Dt−1

a−1
t−1

Ap′
1+rt−1
, e

, e

Π (e, e′), where Π is the Markov chain for produc-
tivity. Note that the finer distributioneDt over stocks and bonds is indeterminate since agents are indifferent
between assets giving the same return.
11

===== PAGE 12 =====
demand for home goods is given by
C∗
Ht = α
 P∗
Ht
P∗
t
−γ
C∗
t (12)
Production and price-setting for home goods. Home goods are produced from domes-
tic labor with constant returns and a constant productivity level of 1,
Yt = Nt (13)
where Nt is aggregate labor supplied. There is a continuum of monopolistically com-
petitive firms producing home goods with technology (13). Let ϵ denote the elasticity
of substitution between varieties produced within a country. For now, we assume that
prices are fully flexible, so that the price of home goods is set at a constant markupµ over
nominal marginal costs,
PHt = µ Wt (14)
where µ = ϵ/(ϵ − 1). Firms pay real dividends equal to to:
dt = PHtYt − WtNt
Pt
+ EtP∗
Ht − PHt
Pt
C∗
Ht (15)
The first term in (15) is domestic profits; the second term captures profits from exporters’
unhedged currency exposure, if any. Firms have a unit mass of shares outstanding, with
end-of-period real price pt. As is usual, their objective is to maximize real firm value
dt + pt.
Rest-of-the-world monetary policy and price-setting for imports and exports. Mone-
tary policy in the rest of the world keeps the price of foreign goods in foreign currency
constant, P∗
Ft = P∗
t = 1. Since technology is constant, this implies a constant level of
consumption in the rest of the world Ct = C∗, and requires interest rates to satisfy
1 + ι∗
t = 1 + r∗
t = 1
β∗
Bt
Bt+1
(16)
Hence, foreign nominal and real interest rates are equal, and move to offset shocks to
intertemporal preferences. An exogenous increase in Bt relative to Bt+1 raises ι∗
t and r∗
t ,
and transmits to the domestic economy via the UIP conditions (5)–(7). Because, given a
sequence of ι∗
t converging to 1
β∗ − 1 sufficiently fast, we can form Bt = ∏s≥t (β∗ (1 + ι∗
s ))
to satisfy (16), we can alternatively take theι∗
t sequence as an exogenous primitive instead.
12

===== PAGE 13 =====
For convenience, we refer to either theι∗ or the equivalent B sequence as “ι∗-shocks”, and
use both interchangeably in what follows.
For now, we assume that imports are denominated in foreign currency and that there
is perfect pass-through of exchange rates into domestic goods prices: the law of one price
holds at the good level, so that PFt = Et, where Et is the nominal exchange rate. We
assume that the law of one price holds for foreign goods as well, so that P∗
Ht is equal to
the cost PHt/Et of a domestic good in foreign currency units:
P∗
Ht = PHt
Et
(17)
Our economy therefore features nominal rigidity only in domestic currency, with the law
of one price holding at level of each good. This formulation makes our model similar to
the producer currency pricing (PCP) in the celebrated Mundell-Fleming model, adopted by
Galí and Monacelli (2005) and many others, in which exchange rates fully pass through
to foreign-currency prices of exported goods. Later, we will also consider dollar currency
pricing (DCP), where the foreign currency price of home goods P∗
Ht is sticky in foreign
currency.
Sticky wages and unions. We assume a standard formulation for sticky wages with
heterogeneous households, similar to Auclert, Rognlie and Straub (2024a). 16 A union
employs all households for an equal number of hours Nt, and sets the nominal wage
rate Wt à la Calvo. We choose the union’s objective function so that it leads to the wage
Phillips curve17
πwt = κw
 
v′ (Nt)
1
µ w
Wt
Pt u′(Ct)
− 1
!
+ βπwt+1 (18)
where πwt denotes nominal wage inflation, πwt ≡ Wt/Wt−1 − 1. Wage inflation rises
when marginal disutility of average workv′ (Nt) is higher than the product of the marked-
down real wage by the marginal utility of average consumption 1
µ w
Wt
Pt u′(Ct), now or in
the future. The Phillips curve parameter is κw = (1−βθw)(1−θw)
θw , where θw is the Calvo
probability of keeping the wage fixed every period.
16As explained in Auclert, Bardóczy and Rognlie (2023) and Broer, Hansen, Krusell and Öberg (2020),
the assumption of sticky wages and flexible prices is better suited to heterogeneous-agent models than the
opposite assumption of sticky prices and flexible wages.
17In Auclert, Rognlie and Straub (2024a)’s formulation of the union problem, the consumption level that
enters the Phillips curve in (18) is the aggregatorCt ≡ (u′)−1 (E [eitu′ (cit)]) that takes into account inequal-
ity in labor earnings. Here we opt for the formulation in (18) for simplicity. All our analytical results hold
if we use Ct instead of Ct, with the exception of the neutrality result with a Taylor rule from appendix C.5,
and the quantitative results from section 5 are nearly identical.
13

===== PAGE 14 =====
Domestic fiscal and monetary policy. The government does not spend, tax or use trans-
fers, and domestic bonds are in zero net supply. The monetary authority sets the nominal
interest rate according to a monetary rule. It is standard in the open-economy literature
to consider a few of these rules. For the analytical results that we develop in the next two
sections, we consider a specification in which monetary policy holds the real interest rate
constant:
ιt = rss + πt+1 + ϵt (19)
This is a CPI-based Taylor rule with a coefficient of 1 on expected inflation. This monetary
rule achieves a middle ground between standard CPI-based Taylor rules with responsive-
ness larger than 1, and zero-lower-bound specifications with a fixed nominal interest rate,
and is widely used in the literature as a device to partial out the effects of monetary policy
in the study of the effects of shocks to aggregate demand (e.g. Woodford 2011, McKay,
Nakamura and Steinsson 2016, Auclert, Rognlie and Straub 2024a). In section 5, we con-
sider, as an alternative, a standard Taylor rule with inertia, as in Clarida, Galí and Gertler
(2000) and Itskhoki and Mukhin (2021),
ιt = ρmιt−1 + (1 − ρm)(rss + ϕπt+1) + ϵt (20)
with ϕ > 1, which, as we show below, yields similar results to (19). We also show in
appendix C.5 that the results are robust to a Taylor rule based on producer prices, ιt =
rss + ϕπHt + ϵt with πHt = PHt
PHt−1
− 1 and ϕ > 1, as in Galí and Monacelli (2005).
Equilibrium. Given sequences of rest-of-the-world discount shocks {Bt} (or alterna-
tively foreign interest rates {ι∗
t }) and monetary shocks {ϵt}, and an initial wealth dis-
tribution deDi0
 
s, BH, BF, e

, an equilibrium is a path of policies {cHit (ap, e) , cFit (ap, e) ,
cit (ap, e) , ait+1 (ap, e)} and distributions Dit (ap, e) for households, prices {Et, Qt, Pt, PHt,
PFt, Wt, rt, ιt} and aggregate quantities {Ct , CHt, CFt, Yt, At, pt, dt,nfa t}, such that house-
holds optimize, distributions evolve consistently with deDi0 and household policies, firms
optimize, and the domestic goods market clears:
CHt + C∗
Ht = Yt (21)
We focus on equilibria in which the long-run exchange rate returns to its initial steady
state level, Q∞ = Qss.18
18In appendix A.3, we show that there is always a unique such steady state, and that this is also the unique
no-inflation steady state in stationary models (i.e. in the HA-IM and all the CM models.) For instance, in
these models, the Taylor rule ιt = rss + ϕπt+1 + ϵt as ϕ → 1 selects this equilibrium while also enforcing
14

===== PAGE 15 =====
We define the net foreign asset position as the difference between the real value of as-
sets accumulated domestically,At, and the total value of assets in net supply domestically,
pt, i.e.
nfat ≡ At − pt (22)
Appendix A.2 shows that, in equilibrium, the current account identity holds:
nfat − nfat−1 = PHt
Pt
Yt − Ct + rt−1nfat−1 (23)
for t ≥ 1, where PHt
Pt Yt − Ct ≡ NXt is the value of net exports (or, equivalently, the trade
balance) in units of the consumption basket.
Steady state. We consider first-order shocks to the economy around a steady state with
no inflation and a zero net foreign asset position (see appendix A.3 for a characterization
of the steady states of this economy.) Without loss of generality, we normalize prices to 1
in this steady state, implying that PHss, PFss, Pss, P∗
Hss, Ess, Qss are all equal to 1. Moreover,
we normalize domestic steady-state output Yss to 1. Hence, Css and C∗ also equal 1.
Initial portfolios. We resolve the indeterminacy of steady-state portfolios by assuming,
for now, that all agents hold all of their assets in domestic stocks, ie a′ = Ps′.19 Note that
these portfolios do not provide cross-country insurance, which is why we label this case
an incomplete-market equilibrium. In the representative-agent case, this coincides with the
standard notion of incomplete market equilibrium as defined in, e.g., Mendoza (1991),
Baxter and Crucini (1995), and Corsetti et al. (2008).
Complete markets. So far, we have described the incomplete markets model, where
shocks are fully unanticipated, portfolio choice is undetermined in the steady-state, and
initial portfolios are exogenously given. We also consider a case where households can
choose their portfolios optimally to hedge against aggregate shocks. In an environment,
like ours, with a single type of shock, e.g. an exchange rate shock, this allows them to
implement an allocation that has complete markets with respect to aggregate risk, but still
incomplete markets with respect to idiosyncratic shocks. We do this, following Auclert,
Rognlie, Straub and Tapák (2024b), by assuming that first-order shocks are anticipated
rt = rss at all t. More broadly, we can think of the Q∞ = Qss restriction as one enforced by a long-run
monetary policy rule.
19We consider alternative initial exogenous portfolios in section 5.6.
15

===== PAGE 16 =====
to occur with a mean-0 distribution. 20 As appendix A.4 shows, this assumption pins
down initial portfolios but otherwise maintains the same equations as the incomplete-
markets case. The endogenous portfolios that hedge agents against aggregate shocks are
determined by an agent-specific version of the classic Backus-Smith condition,
Q0
B0
E
h
c0
 
ap
0, e′−σ
|e
i
= E
h
css
 
ap
ss, e′−σ
|e
i
(24)
which has to hold to first order at date 0.
2.2 Nested models
We consider three kinds of assumptions on the types of households inhabiting the econ-
omy and the parameters of the problem that they solve (“RA, TA, HA”). For each, we
allow for either incomplete markets vis-à-vis aggregate risk (“IM”) or complete markets
(“CM”).
Representative agent (RA). A special case of (9) drops the borrowing constraint and
has no idiosyncratic income risk, eit = 1. This model admits a single representative agent
whose consumption is equal to its permanent income. As appendix A.6 shows, the prob-
lem from date-0 onward must satisfy the Euler equation
C−σ
t = β (1 + rt) C−σ
t+1 (25)
for t ≥ 0 as well as the budget constraint
Ct + At = (1 + rt−1) At−1 + Wt
Pt
Nt (26)
for t ≥ 1, and a no-Ponzi condition lim t→∞ ∏s≤t (1 + rs)−1 At = 0. With incomplete
markets (“RA-IM”), initial consumption C0 is determined by the requirement that the
initial value of assets isp0 + d0, consistent the country holding a 100% stock portolio. With
complete markets (“RA-CM”) instead, C0 is determined by the Backus-Smith condition,
Qt
Bt
C−σ
t = C−σ
ss (27)
which holds at all t ≥ 0. There is an implied initial value of assets inclusive of insur-
ance payments to or from the rest of the world, and an implied set of initial portfolios
20See Bhandari, Bourany, Evans and Golosov (2023) for a related, state-space approach.
16

===== PAGE 17 =====
sustaining these payments.21
Two agents (TA). We also introduce two-agent models with incomplete markets (“TA-
IM”) and complete markets (“TA-CM”). In these models, the respective representative-
agent model is modified by introducing a fixed fraction λ · µ of “hand-to-mouth” agents
who are constrained to have zero total assets, Ptsc
t + BH,c
t + BF,c
t = 0. As appendix A.7
shows, hand-to-mouth agents derive their income from wages so they earn, at the margin,
a fraction λ of aggregate income; in the CM case they can nevertheless form their portfo-
lios to hedge aggregate shocks at date 0. 22 We calibrate TA-IM and TA-CM by adjusting
λ to match an income-weighted MPC of 0.10, as in our HA model.
Heterogeneous agents (HA). Our heterogeneous-agent model with incomplete markets
(“HA-IM”) is as introduced above, with equal initial 100% stock portfolios across house-
holds, implying in particular no cross-country gross positions. With complete markets
(“HA-CM”), agents are allowed to hedge against the aggregate risk realized at date 0,
leading to the agent-specific Backus-Smith condition (24) and endogenous initial portfo-
lios. We calibrate this model to match data on income dynamics and MPCs in Mexico; in
particular, we target a cross-sectional average MPC of 0.20, implying an income-weighted
MPC of 0.10. We defer a more detailed discussion of the calibration to section 5.2.
2.3 Intertemporal MPCs
In the spirit of Auclert et al. (2024a), we now establish the existence of an intertem-
poral consumption function and discuss properties of its derivatives, the intertemporal
marginal propensities to consume, in the six nested models we introduced. These iMPCs
will turn out to be critical objects for the equilibrium analysis of the next sections.
We begin by observing that, combining the price-setting condition (14) with the pro-
duction function (13), real wage income is always equal to
Wt
Pt
Nt = 1
µ
PHt
Pt
Yt (28)
21Appendix A.6 shows that the RA-CM model admits the exact same log-linear equations as the Galí and
Monacelli (2005) model, extended to allow for foreign discount factor shocks. In particular, since we are not
considering productivity shocks, our assumption that wages rather than prices are sticky is innocuous.
22An alternative formulation of the TA-CM model would restrict hand-to-mouth agents to hold zero gross
position in all assets. We impose the constraint only on net worth to make it parallel to our assumption in
the HA model.
17

===== PAGE 18 =====
i.e. a fixed fraction 1
µ of aggregate real income PHt
Pt Yt. Moreover, combining (28) with (15),
and using the law of one price (17), we see that real dividends are equal to
dt =

1 − 1
µ
 PHt
Pt
Yt (29)
i.e. also a fixed fraction of aggregate real income.
Next, we observe that, combining the relation between the preference shock Bt and
foreign real interest rates in (16) with the real UIP condition (7), we have 1+ r∗
t = 1
β∗
Bt
Bt+1
=
(1 + rt) Qt
Qt+1
. Iterating on this equation with Q∞ = Qss = 1, we therefore find that
Qt = Bt · ∏
s≥t
1 + rss
1 + rs

(30)
where 1 + rss = 1/β∗ is the steady state real interest rate.
We can now state the following result:
Proposition 1. For any calibration of RA, TA or HA, under either incomplete or complete mar-
kets, there exists an intertemporal consumption function C such that the time path of aggregate
consumption for any t ≥ 0 is given by:
Ct = Ct
 PHs
Ps
Ys
∞
s=0
, {rs}∞
s=0

(31)
We write M for the Fréchet derivative of C with respect to PH
P Y around the steady state, and
similarly Mr for 1 + r times the Fréchet derivative of C with respect to r.
The proof is in appendix A.5. The argument is as follows: note first that the only way
in which time-varying aggregate variables enter the household Bellman equation in (9)
is through aggregate real wage income Wt
Pt Nt and the ex-ante real interest rate rt. But by
(28) real wage income is a fixed fraction of aggregate real income. Hence, the household
consumption and asset policy functions only depend on the paths of PHt
Pt Yt and rt.
The realized consumption path of a given household, however, also depends on that
household’s initial asset positionap
0. With incomplete markets, the household’s portfolio
coming into date 0 consists entirely of domestic equities. The date-0 value of these equi-
ties is the present discounted value of real dividends, which by (29) is also a fixed fraction
of real income. With complete markets, the initial asset position ap
0 is pinned down by
equation (24) with Q0/B0 determined by equation (30). Hence, ap
0 depends on the path
of real income via the policy function c0(·, ·). In either case, we see that the entire dis-
tribution of ap
0 is, like the policy functions, only a function of the path of aggregate real
18

===== PAGE 19 =====
Figure 1: Intertemporal MPCs (first column of M) in our six calibrated models
0 5 10 15 20 25 30
Quarters
0.00
0.02
0.04
0.06
0.08
0.10∂Ct/∂Y0
iMPCs with complete markets
RA
TA
HA
0 5 10 15 20 25 30
Quarters
0.00
0.02
0.04
0.06
0.08
0.10
iMPCs with incomplete markets
Note: This figure shows the first column of the M matrix in our six calibrated models. The left panel shows
RA-CM, TA-CM and HA-CM, the right panel RA-IM, TA-IM and HA-IM. TA and HA are calibrated so that
the income-weighted partial equilibrium impact MPC is 0.10; under CM the impact responseM00 is smaller
due to endogenous insurance transfers. Appendix figure A.1 displays the other columns of M.
income PHt
Pt Yt and real interest rates rt. Hence, the path of aggregate consumption also
only depends on these two sequences. We denote the implied “consumption function”
by Ct.23
Let M be the Frechet derivative ofC with respect to PH
P Y around the steady state. As in
Auclert, Rognlie and Straub (2024a), this sequence-space Jacobian can be represented as a
matrix with elements Mt,s ≡ ∂Ct
∂
 PHs
Ps Ys
, which characterize the date-t aggregate consump-
tion response to a date-s change in aggregate real income. Following that paper, we refer
to the elements of M as “intertemporal MPCs”. Appendices A.6–A.8 provide expressions
for M in our six calibrated models.
The first column of M captures the response of aggregate consumption to a one-time
marginal increase in real income at date 0. Figure 1 visualizes this response in our six
models. In the RA-CM model this response is zero, since any real income gain is shared
with the rest of the world (and in fact M = 0).24 In the TA-CM model this response is
also zero, since even hand-to-mouth agents can insure this income shock. (They cannot,
however, insure future income shocks, so M ̸= 0.) In the HA-CM model the insurance
against the aggregate income shock is imperfect, but the iMPCs are still extremely small.
Under incomplete markets, agents can no longer insure aggregate income shocks with
the rest of the world. Nevertheless, the RA-IM model still has low MPCs, as households
23A similar logic underlies the consumption functions used in Kaplan, Moll and Violante (2018), Farhi
and Werning (2019), and Auclert, Rognlie and Straub (2024a).
24Note that the iMPCs are objects that incorporate features of general equilibrium, such as international
consumption insurance. In IM models, M0,0 is an income-weighted MPC. See also Auclert et al. (2024a).
19

===== PAGE 20 =====
can perfectly smooth out their consumption response. The TA-IM model generates a large
date-0 response, but has no persistence. HA-IM is unique in generating both a large date-0
response as well as persistence, as households that are subject to idiosyncratic risk slowly
spend down any transfer to get back to their buffer stocks. This is the crucial property of
the HA-IM model that will be relevant in our analysis below.
Since consumption is a normal good in our models, it is natural to expect the iMPC
matrix M to be non-negative. We prove this in the tractable RA and TA models, and
show this numerically for all reasonable parameterizations of the HA models (though we
currently do not have a proof for a general HA model). We will use this property for some
of our results below, so we state it as an assumption here.
Assumption 1. M ≥ 0.25
Proposition 1 also defines Mr as 1 + r times the Fréchet derivative of C with respect to
r. We defer a discussion of this object to section 4.
3 Exchange rate shocks
We start by considering preference shocks Bt to foreign households—or equivalently, ι∗
t -
shocks. Given the constant real rate rule (19), we have rt = rss for all t, so equation (30)
implies that the real exchange rate is given by
Qt = Bt = ∏
s≥t
 1 + ι∗
s
1 + rss

(32)
Intuitively, when foreign households become more impatient (rising Bt), they push up
foreign interest rates ι∗
t , leading to capital outflows that depreciate the exchange rate (ris-
ing Qt). Given (32), the real exchange rate is effectively exogenous in this section.
Our analysis is centered around the home goods market clearing condition (21). Ag-
gregating the domestic demand equation for home goods (11) across agents, and combin-
ing with the foreign demand equation (12), our assumption on foreign monetary policy,
which ensures P∗
t = 1 and C∗
t = C∗, and the law of one price (17), we can write this
condition as
Yt = (1 − α)
 PHt
Pt
−η
Ct + α
 PHt
Et
−γ
C∗ (33)
25For vectors and matrices, we use the notation ≥ to denote greater than equal element-by-element,
the notation > to add that at least one element is strictly positive, and ≫ to denote strictly greater than,
element-by-element.
20

===== PAGE 21 =====
The relative prices in equation (33) are tied to the real exchange rate Qt. A depreciation
lowers the price of home goods relative to the domestic CPI, PHt/Pt, and relative to the
foreign CPI, PHt/Et. This leads domestic and foreign consumers to substitute towards
home goods. In addition to these traditional expenditure switching effects, the volume
of domestic spending Ct may change. In this section, we characterize how intertemporal
MPCs affects this response.
We illustrate our results using our six calibrated models, subjected to an AR(1) shock
to the foreign discount factor with a quarterly persistence of ρ = 0.85 (or equivalently, an
AR(1) shock to ι∗
t with the same persistence), normalized to have an impact effect of 1 on
the real exchange rate dQ0. The shock is shown in the left panel of figure 2. We follow
Galí and Monacelli (2005) in setting the openness parameter to α = 0.40, and leave the
elasticities η, γ unspecified for now.
3.1 RA-CM benchmark
We first consider the representative-agent complete-market model (“RA-CM model”).
Combining the exchange rate determination equation (32) with the Backus Smith con-
dition (27), we immediately find that consumption does not respond to the shock, Ct =
Css.26 Equation (33) then implies that domestic production is only affected by expenditure
switching.
Proposition 2. In the representative-agent complete-market model with real interest rate rule
(19), the linearized deviations of consumption over output dC t = (Ct − Css) /Yss and output
dYt = (Yt − Yss) /Yss in response to shocks to the real exchange rate dQt = (Qt − Qss) /Qss are
given by
dYRA-CM
t = α
1 − α χdQt ∀t (34)
dCRA-CM
t = 0 ∀t (35)
where χ is the trade elasticity, defined as
χ ≡ η (1 − α) + γ (36)
Proposition 2, proved in appendix B.1, captures a common view in the literature: de-
preciations are expansionary due to expenditure switching, with greater trade elasticity
26Consumption comoves negatively with real exchange rates in response to other shocks that do not
change foreign preferences ( Bt = 1), since the Backus-Smith condition implies that QtC−σ
t is constant in
response to these shocks.
21

===== PAGE 22 =====
leading to more expenditure switching and therefore a greater expansion dYt.
The trade elasticity χ, defined in (36), captures the combined effect of reduced imports
and increased exports following a depreciation. Holding aggregate Ct and C∗
t fixed,
the elasticity of imports with respect to the relative price of foreign goods PFt/PHt is
−η (1 − α), and the elasticity of exports is γ.27 The trade elasticity is the export minus
the import elasticity, and gives the response of net exports in quantity terms. Because a
1% real depreciation raises the relative price of foreign goods by 1
1−α%, it therefore raises
the volume of net exports by χ
1−α% of initial imports, so it has a α
1−α χ% effect on real GDP .
This explains equation (34). The middle panel of figure 2 plots the response of output in
the RA-CM model to the exchange rate shock in the left panel, forχ = 1 (black, solid) and
χ = 0.1 (red, dot-dashed). The scaling of this response in χ is evident in the figure.
While the volume of net exports increases by α
1−α χdQt, the value of net exports also
reflects the rising cost of imports, so it only rises by dNX t = α
1−α (χ − 1) dQt. At χ = 1,
the volume and the price effect offset each other: this is the threshold in the well-known
Marshall-Lerner condition. This will turn out to play a key role in the analysis that follows.
From now on, it will be convenient to express impulse responses as infinite vectors,
e.g. dY = (dY0, dY1, . . .). With this notation, (34)-(35) become dC = 0 and dY = α
1−α χdQ.
3.2 General case
Away from the RA-CM benchmark, domestic consumption Ct does respond to depreci-
ation, via the effect of depreciation on real income. Indeed, applying proposition 1 with
the real interest rate rule rt = rss, we see that Ct only depends on the time path of real in-
come PHt
Pt Yt. Moreover, we have the first-order relation dC = M d

PH
P Y

, with the matrix
of intertemporal MPCs M mapping real income changes into consumption. In turn, con-
sumption affects income through (33). Hence, for general M, the equilibrium response
dYt to an exchange rate shock dQt is the solution to the following fixed-point problem.
Proposition 3. In response to a shock to the real exchange rate d Q, the impulse response of
consumption is given by
dC = − α
1 − αMdQ
| {z }
Real income channel
+ MdY|{z}
Multiplier
(37)
27Aggregating the home demand equation for foreign goods (10) across consumers, we find that aggre-
gate imports are CFt = α

PFt
Pt
−η
Ct, and then ∂ log CFt
∂ log PFt/PHt
= η ∂ log Pt/PFt
∂ log PFt/PHt
= −η (1 − α). Given (12), the
elasticity of aggregate exports is ∂ log C∗
Ht
∂ log P∗
Ft/P∗
Ht
= γ ∂ log P∗
t /P∗
Ht
∂ log P∗
Ft/P∗
Ht
= γ, where the last equality follows from the
fact that the home country is too small to affect the foreign CPI.
22

===== PAGE 23 =====
Figure 2: Effect of exchange rate shocks on output for various χ’s
0 5 10 15 20 25 30
Quarters
−0.2
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
1.2
Percent of s.s.
Real exchange rate Q
0 5 10 15 20 25 30
Quarters
−0.2
−0.1
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
Output Y, complete markets
χ = 1
χ = 0.1, RA
χ = 0.1, TA
χ = 0.1, HA
0 5 10 15 20 25 30
Quarters
−0.2
−0.1
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
Output Y, incomplete markets
Note: AR(1) shock to ι∗
t with persistence 0.85, and corresponding impulse response of the real exchange rate Qt in the left panel. The
shock is normalized so that the real exchange rate depreciates by 1% on impact. χ is the trade elasticity (the sum of the import and
export elasticity to the exchange rate). The HA model generates a contraction on impact for χ < χ∗ = 0.26.
and the impulse response of output dY is determined by an “international Keynesian cross”
dY = α
1 − α χdQ
| {z }
Exp. switching channel
− αMdQ| {z }
Real income channel
+ (1 − α) MdY| {z }
Multiplier
(38)
Proposition 3 shows that the impulse responses of consumption and output only de-
pend on the openness parameter α, the trade elasticity χ, and the matrix of intertemporal
MPCs M. Equation (37) finds that there are two ways in which real income PHt
Pt Yt, and
hence consumption dC, are affected by an exchange rate depreciation dQ. First, a depre-
ciation lowers PHt
Pt by α
1−αdQt, that is, it lowers the price of the goods that the country
produces relative to the price of those that it buys. This reduces real income, leading
agents to cut consumption by M × α
1−αdQ. We refer to this as the real income channel .
Second, a depreciation affects the path of output dY, which also enters real income, and
changes consumption by M × dY. This is a standard (Keynesian) multiplier effect.
Linearizing goods market clearing (33) and substituting in (37), we obtain equation
(38), whose form is like that of a standard Keynesian cross, where the relevant multiplier
is the product of M by home bias (1 − α). Including expenditure switching, there are
altogether three distinct channels that jointly determine the output response to any given
shock. The next proposition, proved in appendix B.3, derives the general solution to (38).
23

===== PAGE 24 =====
Proposition 4. The equilibrium consumption and output responses are unique and given by
dC = α
1 − α (χ − 1) ∑
k≥0
(1 − α)k Mk+1dQ (39)
dY = α
1 − α dQ + α
1 − α (χ − 1) ∑
k≥0
(1 − α)k MkdQ (40)
Just like the ordinary Keynesian cross, the solution to our international Keynesian
cross (38) involves infinitely many rounds, captured here by the powers(1 − α)kMk. One
way to understand (39)–(40) is that, holding consumption constant, the effect of the de-
preciation on the value of net exports is dNX = α
1−α (χ − 1) dQ (see section 3.1), where
χ − 1 is the distance to the Marshall-Lerner condition. 28 Through the national account-
ing identity PHt
Pt Yt = Ct + NXt, this change in net exports feeds into real income, which
in turn affects consumption via M, spilling back into real income, and so on, with the
infinite series in (39) giving the outcome of this multiplier process.
This also explains why, when χ = 1, M drops out of the solutions: the consumption
and output responses to the depreciation are independent of household behavior.
Proposition 5. If χ = 1, dY = α
1−αdQ, dC = 0, and dNX = 0, all independent of M.
When we substitute dY = α
1−αdQ into (37), we get dC = 0: for χ = 1, the rise in output
from expenditure switching is just large enough to offset the loss of real income from
higher prices, leaving total real income and therefore consumption unchanged in every
period. Since consumption is unchanged, the only effect on output is from expenditure
switching, just as in the RA-CM model.
Figure 3 shows the responses to the exchange rate shock in the χ = 1 case for both the
RA-CM model (M = 0) and the HA-IM model ( M > 0), displaying separately the three
components of output in equation (38). The expenditure-switching channel is the same
in both cases, but the HA-IM model has a negative real income effect that is exactly offset
by a positive multiplier effect, while in the RA-CM model these two effects are zero.
This result suggests that the real income channel will play an economically more
meaningful role when χ ̸= 1, a case we turn to next.
28Observe that χ = 1 does not correspond to the well-known Cole and Obstfeld (1991) parametrization,
which, using (36), is given by χ = 2 − α. The Cole and Obstfeld (1991) parametrization turns out to be more
relevant for the analysis of monetary policy (see section 4).
24

===== PAGE 25 =====
Figure 3: Exchange rate shock when χ = 1 and its transmission channels
0 5 10 15 20 25 30
Quarters
−0.2
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
dY (percent of ss)
RA model with complete markets
Total
Real income channel
Exp. switching channel
Multiplier
0 5 10 15 20 25 30
Quarters
−0.2
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
HA model with incomplete markets
Note: impulse response in RA-CM and HA-IM to the shock to ι∗
t from figure 2, with decomposition from proposition 3.
3.3 Complementarity between iMPCs and the trade elasticity
When χ ̸= 1, proposition 4 suggests that the aggregate response to depreciation is affected
by M. Specifically, there is a complementarity between having trade elasticitiesχ ̸= 1 and
larger intertemporal MPCs M. We formalize this result in the following proposition.
Proposition 6. Consider two models with M,fM such that M >fM, and a shock dQ ≫ 0. Then,
χ < 1 ⇔ dY < deY and d C < deC
Higher intertemporal MPCs M reduce the output response dY if and only if χ < 1,
since they amplify the negative effect of the real income channel on consumption (sym-
metrically, when χ > 1, higher iMPCs increase the output response.) Since both high
M and—as we argue in section 5—low short-run trade elasticity χ < 1 are realistic as-
sumptions for exchange rate shocks, this suggests that the RA-CM model is overstating
the output and consumption response to a depreciation.
Figure 4 visualizes the complementarity described in proposition 6. It shows, for the
RA-CM model (M = 0) and the HA-IM model ( M > 0), the impact responses of output
dY0 and consumption dC0 to the shock considered in figure 2 at various values of χ. A
larger M pivots the lines in these figures counter-clockwise around χ = 1. As a result, in
a model with M > 0, we get an impact decline in consumption whenχ < 1, and a decline
in output when χ is sufficiently below 1.
Which models have an M large enough to meaningfully affect the output and con-
sumption response to depreciation? Among the models that we consider, HA-IM stands
out. Indeed, figure 2 shows that, at χ = 0.1, it is the only model that generates a sizable
decline in output on impact. Table 1 shows that this stems from its unique ability to gen-
25

===== PAGE 26 =====
Figure 4: Complementarity between expenditure switching elasticity χ and high MPCs
0.00 0.25 0.50 0.75 1.00 1.25 1.50
χ
−0.4
−0.2
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
1.2
Percent of ss.
Output at date 0 dY0
HA-IM
RA-CM
0.00 0.25 0.50 0.75 1.00 1.25 1.50
χ
−0.8
−0.6
−0.4
−0.2
0.0
0.2
0.4
Consumption at date 0 dC0
Note: changes on impact in output and consumption following the shock toι∗
t from figure 2. The HA-IM model generates a contraction
for output on impact forχ < χ∗ = 0.26 and a contraction for consumption forχ < 1. The RA-CM model never generates a contraction.
dC0 RA TA HA
Complete markets 0.00 0.00 - 0.02
Incomplete markets -0.09 - 0.15 - 0.34
Note: changes on impact of consumption to the shock to ι∗
t displayed in Figure 2 with χ = 0.1.
Table 1: Complementarity between market incompleteness and heterogeneity
erate a large decline in consumption on impact. In CM models, the effect of depreciation
on aggregate consumption are insured.29 In RA-IM, the impact MPC is small. In TA-IM,
the impact MPC is large, but the iMPCs are small—there is very limited persistence in
spending after an income shock (figure 1). We conclude that it is the combination of ag-
gregate market incompleteness and heterogeneity that "sizes up" the real income channel,
generating a meaningful contractionary effect of depreciation at low trade elasticities.
Extensions: dollar currency pricing, nontradable goods, imported intermediates. Ap-
pendix E.1 describes how our results change if we assume dollar currency pricing instead
of producer currency pricing. Appendices E.2 and E.3 show that our results also apply in
a model with nontradable goods or with imported intermediate goods. These models are
isomorphic to our baseline model, under a reinterpretation of parameters.
29In particular, a CM model always has a smaller consumption decline than an IM model at χ < 1. This
is because MCM ≤ MIM , as we prove in appendix B.6.
26

===== PAGE 27 =====
3.4 Contractionary depreciations
We now summarize our results on contractionary depreciations due to the real income
channel and contrast them to existing literature. First, when χ is below 1, depreciations
lower real income and consumption.
Proposition 7. If χ < 1, the consumption and real income response to a depreciation shock
dQ ≥ 0 is negative: dC ≤ 0 and d PHY
P ≤ 0
This result shows that low trade elasticities and high intertemporal MPCs can help
explain the empirical Backus-Smith correlation, complementing the recent findings of It-
skhoki and Mukhin (2021).
Second, while expenditure switching always boosts output relative to consumption,
there is a threshold elasticity χ∗ such that output also contracts.
Proposition 8. Given a depreciation shock dQ ≥ 0, there is a threshold χ∗ between (1 − α)M0,0
and 1 such that for any χ < χ∗, the output response is negative on impact, dY0 ≤ 0. Moreover, if
χ < 1 − α, in any incomplete market model, the present value of the output response is negative,
∑∞
t=0(1 + r)−tdYt ≤ 0.
For low enough χ, the real income channel overwhelms the expenditure switching
channel in (38) on impact of the shock. Consider, for instance, a one-time shock to dQ0:
here, the real income effect at t = 0 is −αM0,0dQ0, compared to expenditure switching
of α
1−α χdQ0. When χ < (1 − α)M0,0, the former dominates. This dominant real income
channel is only reinforced by the multiplier in (38), since with high iMPCs the real income
effect on consumption persists after the shock has passed, and this persistence feeds back
to date 0 via the multiplier. Overall, for any depreciation, there is a thresholdχ∗ at which
it becomes contractionary on impact: χ∗ is at least (1 − α)M0,0, and usually greater due
to multiplier effects.30 Further, in an incomplete markets model, χ < 1 − α is enough to
generate an output response with negative present value.
Since this result is driven by the real income channel, it is different from, and comple-
mentary to, the commonly studied balance sheet channel with currency mismatch (e.g.
Aghion, Bacchetta and Banerjee 2004, Céspedes, Chang and Velasco 2004). It can poten-
tially explain the continued relevance of fear of floating (Ilzetzki, Reinhart and Rogoff
2019) and reserve hoarding (Bianchi and Lorenzoni 2022) among countries for which cur-
rency mismatch is no longer an issue (see appendix D.6).
30For instance, in our calibration of HA-IM and for the shock we consider, we have χ∗ = 0.26.
27

===== PAGE 28 =====
Relation to the old Keynesian literature. So far, we have stressed the contrast between
a model with realistic iMPCs and the RA-CM model, in which depreciations never lower
output. However, our result also contrasts with the old Keynesian analysis of open-
economy IS-LM (Polak 1947, Harberger 1950, Laursen and Metzler 1950), as summarized,
for instance, in Dornbusch (1980). According to this theory, depreciations always lower
output when χ < 1, irrespective of MPCs.
The reason for the discrepancy is as follows. Dornbusch (1980) wrote the equation
determining the equilibrium level of output as Y = E (Y) + T (p, Y), where E is domestic
spending, T is the trade surplus, and p is the relative price of imports in terms of domestic
goods. This equation implies that dY = Tp
1−EY−TY
dp, and therefore, the condition under
which output falls with depreciation ( dY/dp < 0) is the same as that under which the
trade balance deteriorates (Tp < 0), which corresponds to being on the wrong side of the
Marshall-Lerner condition ( χ < 1). In this theory, MPCs only play a role in amplifying
any given response of the trade balance on output.
The difference with our framework can be best understood by recognizing that the
national accounting identity is given by PHt
Pt Yt = Ct + NXt, where Ct and NXt depend
on real income PHt
Pt Yt rather than output directly. Hence, the result derived by Dornbusch
(1980) should be interpreted as the effect of depreciation on real income, not output, con-
sistent with our proposition 7. In fact, in the special case of the TA-CM model, we show
in appendix A.7 that, in periods t ≥ 1, real income is given by the analogue of the Dorn-
busch (1980) condition
d
 PHt
Pt
Yt

= α
1 − α
χ − 1
1 − (1 − α) λdQt (41)
where λ is the effective MPC. However, because the relative price PHt/Pt falls with de-
preciation, the equation determining the volume of output for t ≥ 1 is in fact
dYt = α
1 − α
χ − (1 − α) λ
1 − (1 − α) λ dQt (42)
Hence, the threshold determining whether output contracts is χ∗ = (1 − α) λ < 1, which
increases with the effective MPCλ. Relative to the open-economy IS-LM logic, our micro-
founded model therefore requires lower trade elasticities to generate contractionary out-
put depreciations.
28

===== PAGE 29 =====
4 Monetary policy
We next ask how monetary transmission is affected by the real income channel under het-
erogeneity and incomplete markets. For this section, we assume log preferences, σ = 1,
and a real interest rate rule, which allow for a clean analytical characterization.31 We also
focus on the contrast between the RA-CM and HA-IM models, which we saw provided
two polar cases for the importance of the real income channel. Appendix C.4 covers the
intermediate RA-IM case.
4.1 Transmission of real interest rates
Given our monetary policy rule (19), monetary policy affects aggregate activity by directly
changing the path of domestic real interest rates {rt}. This has two distinct effects on
household behavior. First, it affects the path of the real exchange rate {Qt} through the
real UIP condition. Given no preference shock Bt = 1, (30) now implies
Qt = ∏
s≥t
1 + rss
1 + rs

(43)
These changes in the real exchange rate operate through the expenditure switching and
real income channels analyzed in section 3.
Second, changes in domestic interest rates also affect the economy directly, since rt
moves asset prices and returns at all dates, including, under incomplete markets, by
revaluing wealth at date 0. The resulting income and substitution effects are well-studied
in the closed economy literature (e.g. Auclert 2019). We refer to this set of effects as
the interest rate channel . The interest rate response matrix Mr, defined in section 2.3 as
Mr
t,s ≡ (1 + r) · ∂Ct/∂rs, captures these closed-economy effects.
To characterize the effect of monetary policy on output, we proceed again by lin-
earizing the goods market clearing condition. Consider a change {drt} to real inter-
est rates, and let dr ≡

dr0
1+r, dr1
1+r, . . .
′
. Given (43), the real exchange rate responds by
dQt = − ∑s≥t
drs
1+r, or in matrix notation, dQ = −Udr, where U is the matrix with 1’s
on and above the diagonal. Linearizing (21), we now obtain a generalized version of the
international Keynesian cross (38):
31These assumptions can be relaxed slightly; for instance, appendix C.5 extends our main equivalence
result to Taylor rules and productivity shocks.
29

===== PAGE 30 =====
dY = (1 − α) Mrdr| {z }
Interest rate channel
+ α
1 − α χdQ
| {z }
Exp. switching channel
− αMdQ| {z }
Real income channel
+ (1 − α) MdY| {z }
Multiplier
(44)
The representative-agent model with complete markets is still covered as a special case of
equation (44), for which M = 0 and Mr = −U.32 In that case, equation (44) delivers the
simple expression dYRA-CM = −
 
(1 − α) + α
1−α χ

Udr.
Contrast this with the HA-IM model. In that model, it is well-understood from the
closed-economy literature that the interest rate channel is less powerful, since agents have
less ability to substitute intertemporally. In a closed economy, Werning (2015) has shown
that this weaker interest rate channel tends to be offset by a stronger multiplier. In the
open economy, however, the multiplier is weaker, since only a share 1 − α of domestic
demand is spent on home goods. Hence, with χ = 1, the HA model has a weaker output
response to monetary policy. However, as we prove next, equivalence is restored at a
greater value of χ, namely χ = 2 − α.
Proposition 9. Assume σ = 1, and consider an arbitrary first-order monetary policy shock dr. If
χ = 2 − α, all aggregate quantities and prices are identical in the RA-CM and HA-IM models.
Moreover, provided that M > 0, for an accommodative shock d r < 0, the output response in the
HA-IM model satisfies
χ < 2 − α ⇔ dYHA-IM < dYRA-CM
Proposition 9 is the analogue of Proposition 5 for monetary policy. The neutral case,
χ = 2 − α, includes the commonly-studied Cole and Obstfeld (1991) parameterization
with η = γ = σ = 1.33 This result generalizes the representative-agent result in Itskhoki
(2021) to heterogeneous-agent models, and the closed economy result of Werning (2015)
to the open economy. Appendix C.4 shows that this proposition applies equally to the
comparison between RA-CM and RA-IM.34
To understand this result, it is helpful to consider the effects of monetary policy on the
trade balance. Suppose that consumption changes as in the RA-CM model: the Backus-
32Recall that σ = 1 in this section. In a RA-CM model with general σ, we have Mr = − 1
σ U.
33In fact, in this Cole-Obstfeld case, it is even possible to prove that proposition 9 holds for unanticipated
non-linear shocks. We can generalize our results further when χ = 2 − α, e.g. by allowing for arbitrary
monetary policy rules. See appendix C.5.
34Bianchi and Coulibaly (2023) independently arrived at a decomposition similar to (44) for the consump-
tion response after a monetary policy shock in a tradable-nontradable RA-IM model. See appendix E.4 for
an analogous model.
30

===== PAGE 31 =====
Figure 5: The effects of monetary policy
0 5 10 15 20 25 30
Quarters
−0.5
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
dY (percent of s.s.)
RA-CM with χ = 2 − α
Total
Real income channel
Exp. switching channel
Interest rate channel
0 5 10 15 20 25 30
Quarters
−0.5
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
HA-IM with χ = 2 − α
0 5 10 15 20 25 30
Quarters
−0.25
0.00
0.25
0.50
0.75
1.00
HA-IM with χ = 0.5
Note: impulse response to a rt shock that is identical to the ι∗
t shock from figure 2, but with opposite sign. This leads to the same Qt
path as in the left panel of that figure. The decomposition follows equation (44) but the multiplier effect is omitted from the figure.
Smith condition then implies that dCt = dQt. Then, applying the relationship between
the trade balance, the real exchange rate and consumption (see appendix B.1), we have
dNX t = α
1 − α (χ − 1) dQt − αdCt = α
1 − α (χ − (2 − α)) dQt (45)
Hence, at χ = 2 − α, expenditure switching offsets both the increase in import prices and
the higher import demand, and the economy behaves as if it were a closed economy.
Given this, we can apply Werning (2015)’s result for closed economies to validate our
guess that consumption behaves as if there was a representative agent. By contrast, when
χ < 2 − α, the net export decline causes a real income decline, which in general equilib-
rium results in weaker consumption and output responses than the RA-CM model.
Figure 5 illustrates proposition 9 by showing the output response as well as its de-
composition using equation (44). For simplicity, we consider an accommodative interest
rate shock that generates the same path for the real exchange rate as that considered in
section 3. The left and middle panels illustrate the case with χ = 2 − α. Relative to the
RA-CM model (left panel), there is a clearly negative real income effect and a weaker in-
terest rate effect in the HA-IM model (middle panel). However, both are exactly offset by
a positive multiplier effect from the increased production (not shown), so that the output
response is identical. The right panel shows what happens in the HA-IM model when
χ = 0.5 < 2 − α instead. The interest rate and real income channels are unchanged rela-
tive to χ = 2 − α but the expenditure switching channel is muted. As a result, the positive
multiplier effect no longer offsets the negative influence of the interest rate and real in-
come channels in HA-IM relative to RA-CM. This is the reason why the output response
in HA-IM is below that of the RA model everywhere, consistent with proposition 9.
31

===== PAGE 32 =====
4.2 Stealing demand from the future through current account deficits
An intriguing aspect of the bottom right panel of figure 5 is that the output response in
the HA model turns negative after 9 quarters, until it returns to steady state much later. In
other words, monetary stimulus successfully raises aggregate demand for a few quarters,
but at the cost of lowering it afterward. It “steals” demand from the future.
What explains this pattern? As discussed above, when χ < 2 − α, monetary stimulus
generates a current account deficit: agents borrow from abroad, both to finance higher
spending today, spurred by the low rates, and to smooth the real income losses from
higher import prices. These current account deficits accumulate into a negative net for-
eign asset position over time, which remains even after the interest rate and exchange rate
have converged most of the way back to steady state. To rebalance the current account,
agents cut back on spending, causing a downturn in aggregate demand, and the economy
eventually converges back to its initial steady state.
The following proposition derives a simple expression for the present value of the
consumption adjustment needed to close a given net foreign asset position dnfat.
Proposition 10. If the real exchange rate is at steady state from date t + 1 onward (dQ t+s = 0
for s ≥ 1), the date-t present value of consumption and output is given by
∞
∑
s=1
(1 + rss)−sdCt+s = 1
α dnfat
∞
∑
s=1
(1 + rss)−sdYt+s = 1 − α
α dnfat (46)
Intuitively, in present value terms, any negative net foreign asset position will even-
tually be repaid. If there is no depreciation, this must involve a recession. Proposition
10 shows that the more closed the economy (the smaller α), the larger the reduction of
spending and output required for repayment, since most of the reduced spending falls on
home goods, which does not contribute to the international adjustment.35
Our “stealing demand from the future” effect is a close cousin to the “limited ammu-
nition” effect in closed-economy models that has been recently described by McKay and
Wieland (2021), Caballero and Simsek (2021) and Mian, Straub and Sufi (2021). There is
one crucial difference, however. In our open economy setting, the effect of monetary pol-
icy can be so weak that the present value of the output response to monetary stimulus,
PV(dY), is negative. Appendix C.3 shows that this happens in our model when χ < 1 − α.
To conclude, with high MPCs and low trade elasticities, the real income channel substan-
tially alters the transmission of monetary policy in open economies.
35See Krugman (1987) for an earlier articulation of this point. Of course, a less open economy is less likely
to accumulate a large negative NFA in the first place.
32

===== PAGE 33 =====
5 Quantitative model
We have shown that the importance of heterogeneity for the effects of exchange rates or
monetary policy depends on the level of the trade elasticity χ. We derived these results
under the standard assumption of static CES demand, for which χ is a constant struc-
tural parameter. Yet, a host of empirical evidence suggests that the response of the trade
balance to exchange rate shocks takes time to play out and depends on the nature of the
shock, notably on agents’ expectations of its persistence (e.g. Ruhl 2008, Fitzgerald and
Haller 2018). For transitory shocks to exchange rates, the elasticity can be close to 0 in the
short run (e.g. Hooper, Johnson and Marquez 2000); for more permanent shocks, such as
tariff changes, it can be 4 or more in the long run (e.g. Caliendo and Parro 2015). Any
plausible quantification exercise needs to confront this evidence.
In this section, we develop a quantitative version of the benchmark model studied so
far. To this benchmark, we add a stylized model of "delayed substitution," which exhibits
shock-dependent and time-varying elasticities of imports and exports to movements in
relative prices. The model’s aggregate dynamics are similar to those of the richer mod-
els in Ruhl (2008), Drozd and Nosal (2012) and Alessandria and Choi (2021), but it ab-
stracts away from the behavior of firms and focuses directly on that of of households.
In doing so, it captures the essence of these theories in reduced form, and is straight-
forward to integrate into broader general equilibrium environments, such as that of our
heterogeneous-agent model.36
In addition to delayed substitution, our quantitative model allows for price rigidities
on top of wage rigidity (and hence intermediate degrees of exchange rate pass-through),
non-homotheticities in consumption, heterogeneous incidence of aggregate shocks on
households’ labor income, and a standard Taylor rule for monetary policy.
5.1 Additional model elements
We next introduce our new model elements.
Non-homothetic preferences. Cravino and Levchenko (2017) document that, in Mexico,
households at the bottom of the income distribution consume a larger share of imported
goods than households at the top, implying that they experience larger declines in real
income during a depreciation.37 Since poor households typically have higher MPCs, ac-
36See Arkolakis, Eaton and Kortum (2012) and Drozd, Kolbin and Nosal (2021) for alternative reduced-
form models that share the same objective.
37The importance of this phenomenon in other countries is subject to an empirical debate. Borusyak and
Jaravel (2021) argue that the share of imports in consumption baskets is flat across the income distribution
in the United States. Bems and di Giovanni (2016) argue that the fall in aggregate income during the 2008
33

===== PAGE 34 =====
counting for this fact could magnify the importance of the real income channel. To allow
for this possibility, we follow Carroll and Hur (2020) and Fanelli and Straub (2021) and
assume agents consume a Stone-Geary CES bundle, with a positive subsistence needc for
imported goods,38
c =
h
α1/η (cF − c)(η−1)/η + (1 − α)1/η c(η−1)/η
H
iη/(η−1)
(47)
Unequal incidence of aggregate shocks on workers.Blanco et al. (2024) show that the deval-
uation of 2002 in Argentina had heterogeneous incidence on the real income of workers
across the income distribution. To allow for this, we follow Auclert and Rognlie (2018)
and assume that the total labor income of a worker with productivity e is39
labor income for e, t = Wt
Pt
Nt
e1+ζ log
 Wt
Pt Nt

Wss
Pss Nss

R
˜e1+ζ log
 Wt
Pt Nt

Wss
Pss Nss

d ˜e
(48)
In the data, the elasticity of individual household income to aggregate income Wt
Pt Nt is
decreasing in the productivity e of workers, so ζ is negative. This implies that the labor
income of low-productivity workers falls more in recessions and rises more in booms rela-
tive to high-productivity workers. Given that low-productivity workers also have higher
marginal propensities to consume, this additional source of heterogeneity will amplify
the real income and the multiplier channels.
Monetary policy. Clarida et al. (2000) show that US monetary policy is well approx-
imated by a policy rule targeting expected CPI-inflation with inertia. In this spirit, we
replace the constant–r monetary rule in the previous sections by the Taylor rule (20).
Sticky prices and imperfect exchange rate pass-through. We allow for price stickiness in
domestic prices, modeled a la Calvo with a price stickiness coefficient ofθH. This leads to
a Phillips curve for inflation in domestic prices PHt of
πHt = κH

µ Wt
ZtPHt
− 1

+ 1
1 + r Et [πH,t+1] (49)
with κH = (1 − θH)

1 − 1
1+r θH

/θH.
We also allow for imperfect pass-through of the exchange rate into import prices as
crisis in Latvia caused consumers to shift towards lower-quality, domestically produced goods.
38Appendix D.1 describes how to modify our solution method to incorporate non-homothetic demand.
39Cyclical movements in aggregate labor income could affect workers differently because of differences
in fundamental productivity, or differences in hours worked.
34

===== PAGE 35 =====
in Monacelli (2005). To model imperfect pass-through to import prices, we assume that
foreign exporters produce differentiated goods at a flat cost of Et per unit and sell them
domestically at a sticky price PFt. The elasticity of substitution between these varieties is
µ F/ (µ F − 1). This formulation leads to a Phillips curve for imported goods PFt of
πFt = κF

µ F
Et
PFt
− 1

+ 1
1 + r Et [πF,t+1] (50)
with κF = (1 − θF)

1 − 1
1+r θF

/θF.
We make the same assumption for home exporters to model imperfect pass-through
into export prices. Then, inflation in the price P∗
H,t of home goods that foreigners see,
expressed in their currency, is
π∗
Ht = κH∗

µ H∗
PHt
EtP∗
Ht
− 1

+ 1
1 + r Et

π∗
H,t+1

(51)
with κH∗ = (1 − θH∗)

1 − 1
1+r θH∗

/θH∗. Domestic equity earns the dividends of both
home producers and home exporters.
Delayed substitution. We introduce delayed substitution by modifying the household
problem. Instead of being able to flexibly adjust their relative consumption of different
countries’ goods in each period, we now assume that households can only do so with
a certain probability 1 − θ. With probability θ, they are forced to keep the ratio of each
country’s good to total consumption constant, although they can still adjust overall ex-
penditure.
We obtain general results for this delayed substitution model in appendix D.3. In our
problem, this model generates first-order dynamics for the target ratios ˆxHt and ˆx∗
Ht, for
households who can adjust, of domestic and foreign home good consumption to overall
consumption:40
d log ˆxHt = −(1 − βθ)ηd log PHt
Pt
+ βθd log ˆxHt+1 (52)
d log ˆx∗
Ht = −(1 − β∗θ)γd log P∗
Ht + β∗θd log ˆx∗
Ht+1 (53)
This is similar to a Calvo model of price-setting, but here, consumers reset their consump-
tion bundles based on their perceptions of current and future relative prices. The aggregate
ratios CHt/Ct and C∗
Ht/C∗, in turn, evolve sluggishly as only a fraction 1 − θ adjusts each
40For the heterogeneous domestic households, the simple form of (52) and (54) requires our assumption
that σ = 1. Otherwise, as shown in appendix D.3, there is a more complex expression for the target ratio,
which can vary between heterogeneous households.
35

===== PAGE 36 =====
Parameter Benchmark model Quantitative model Parameter Benchmark model Quantitative model
σ 1 1 µ 1.043 1.041
φ 2 2 σe 0.883 0.883
η = γ {0.1,0.5,1,2−α}
2−α 4 ρe 0.912 0.912
θ n.a. 0.976 θw 0.938 0.938
β∗ 0.990 0.990 θH 0 0.66
β 0.965 0.962 θH∗ 0 0.66
ζ n.a. - 0.196 θF 0 0
α 0.4 0.344 ρm n.a. 0.8
c 0 0.085 ϕ n.a. 1.5
Moment Data Benchmark model Quantitative Model
Average quarterly MPC 0.20 0.20 0.20
Std of log annual post-tax income 0.84 0.84 0.84
Autocorrelation of order 1 of log annual post-tax income 0.78 0.78 0.78
Average import share 0.40 0.40 0.40
Std of import share 0.042 n.a. 0.042
Std of elasticity to aggregate income 0.15 n.a. 0.15
Notes: all parameters are for the quarterly calibration. Average and standard deviations are computed across deciles of income. The
income process is discretized with 7 points.
Table 2: Calibration
period, with dynamics described by
d log CHt
Ct
= ( 1 − θ)d log ˆxHt + θd log CHt−1
Ct−1
(54)
d log C∗
Ht = ( 1 − θ)d log ˆx∗
Ht + θd log C∗
Ht−1 (55)
This delivers a model in which the trade elasticity is both shock- and time-dependent.
For instance, for foreign consumption C∗
Ht of the home good, the long-run elasticity to a
permanent shock is simply γ. By contrast, the short-run elasticity to the same permanent
shock is lower, at γ (1 − θ), since it takes time for consumers to adjust. Finally, the short-
run elasticity to a one-time shock is even lower, atγ (1 − θ) (1 − βθ), since even those who
change their bundles choose to adjust little, as they anticipate wanting to adjust back in
the other direction after the shock has passed.
5.2 Calibration
Aggregate calibration. We calibrate the model at a quarterly frequency. Our aggregate
calibration is standard. Our goal is to capture the essential features of a typical Latin
36

===== PAGE 37 =====
American economy such as Mexico, since emerging economies have been the focal point
of policy discussions on the consequences of exchange rate depreciations. Furthermore,
as we will show in section 5.5, many of the features that make contractionary deprecia-
tions more likely (e.g. incomplete financial markets, openness to trade) tend to prevail in
emerging economies.
Table 2 summarizes this calibration. We set β∗ to achieve an annualized real interest
rate of r = 4% in steady state and β to clear the asset market at home. We set the initial
steady state net foreign asset position to 0, with all assets invested in domestic stocks, to
avoid interactions between exchange rates and pre-existing trade deficits. We consider
standard values of σ = 1 for the elasticity of intertemporal substitution, and φ−1 = 0.5
for the Frisch elasticity of labor supply. For the elasticity of substitution across goods,
we proceed as follows. Since there is limited evidence that this elasticity is different for
imported vs domestic goods relative to between imported goods, we set γ = η. This
implies that χ = (2 − α) γ. In our benchmark model, we considered a range of values for
χ. By contrast, our quantitative model relies on delayed substitution, which we calibrate
below.
MPCs. To calibrate the aggregate consumption behavior of the model, and in the ab-
sence of MPC evidence from Mexico, we target a quarterly MPC of 0.20 measured by
Hong (2023) for Peru41. We assume an AR(1) process for log income, with a persistenceρe
and a cross-sectional standard deviation of logs σe set to match the persistence and stan-
dard deviation of residual log annual income for Mexico from the GRID project (Guve-
nen, Pistaferri and Violante 2022), which we adjust for progressive income taxation using
estimates from De Magalhaes, Martorell-Toledano and Santaeulalia-Llopis (2022). 42 We
adjust the markup µ , which mostly affects the level of steady-state liquidity in the model,
so as to target the average quarterly MPC, and set the borrowing constraint to a = 0.43
This delivers µ = 1.041, so an average liquid wealth to GDP ratio of 98%. 44 We set the
markups of importers and exporters to µ F = µ H∗ = 1 to keep the steady states of the
baseline and quantitative models similar.
Non-homothetic preferences. To calibrate the spending behavior of households across
41A quarterly MPC of 0.20 is similar to estimates from other countries (e.g. see Sokolova 2023).
42Since our quantitative model has subsistence needs, we make sure that our discretization procedure
respects the constraint that the agent at the lowest level of income can always afford the subsistence level
of consumption.
43Setting a different borrowing constraint a would leave our quantitative results almost unaffected, be-
cause we would recalibrate markups to match the same average quarterly MPC.
44This compares to a Mexican wealth-GDP ratio of 350% in 2018. Our estimate is smaller and best under-
stood as capturing liquid wealth. We decided not to target aggregate wealth to GDP in order to hit realistic
MPCs, whose importance is emphasized by our theoretical results.
37

===== PAGE 38 =====
Figure 6: Calibration targets across the income distribution
2 4 6 8 10
Income decile
0.30
0.35
0.40
0.45
0.50
0.55Import share
Non-homothetic preferences
Benchmark model
Quantitative model
Data
2 4 6 8 10
Income decile
0.7
0.8
0.9
1.0
1.1
1.2
1.3
1.4
1.5Elasticity of labor earnings to aggregate income
Unequal incidence
Note: the quantitative model targets the average and standard deviation across income deciles of consumption share of foreign goods
and the standard deviation across income deciles of the elasticity of labor income to aggregate income.
goods, we target moments of the Mexican spending survey reported in Cravino and
Levchenko (2017). From their data, we obtain the average tradable share at each income
decile, as well as that decile’s share of aggregate consumption. We then assume that the
share of imports within tradables is the same across the income distribution, and compute
income-specific import shares so that the economy-wide share lines up with the Mexican
import/GDP ratio of 40%, as reported in appendix table A.1.45 In the benchmark model,
we set α = 0.4, while in the quantitative model we adjust α, the asymptotic import share,
and c, the subsistence level on the imported good, to target an average import share of 0.4
together with the standard deviation of import shares across income deciles.
Unequal incidence of aggregate shocks. We use information from Blanco et al. (2024) to
calibrate ζ, which governs in the model the elasticity of labor income with respect to
aggregate income for workers with different productivity e. The authors generously pro-
vided us with estimates for the elasticity of real labor income with respect to aggregate
income for different income deciles following the depreciation of 2002 in Argentina. They
find that the elasticity is larger for low-income workers than high-income workers, which
implies that ζ < 0. Our strategy is to find ζ < 0 such that the standard deviation of
the elasticity across income deciles is identical in the model and in the data. This yields
ζ = −0.196. Appendix D.2 provides details.
Figure 6 shows the import share and elasticity of labor earnings to aggregate income
across deciles of the income distribution. Overall our model does a good job at capturing
the joint variation in the import share and the elasticity of labor earnings. In particu-
lar, both are declining in income, as emphasized by Cravino and Levchenko (2017) and
45Appendix E.2 spells out a formal model with nontradables, domestically produced tradables and im-
ported tradables, and shows that it is equivalent to our model if α is calibrated to the import/GDP ratio.
38

===== PAGE 39 =====
Blanco et al. (2024).
Phillips curve parameters. Appendix D.5 provides details on our calibration of Phillips
curve parameters. Among the price rigidity parameters, the Calvo coefficient for import
prices θF is the most important as it directly affects the magnitude of the real income
effect. We calibrate θF using evidence from the 1994 Mexican devaluation as reported
by Burstein and Gopinath (2015). For this particular devaluation, we find perfect pass-
through to import prices, so θF = 0.46 By contrast, given the widespread evidence in
Boz et al. (2022) for dollar pricing of exports in Latin American countries, we set θH∗ >
0. We assume that the degree of price rigidity in dollar prices, like the price rigidity of
domestic goods prices, corresponds to an average price reset frequency of 9 months, as
is standard in the literature. This leads us to set θH = θH∗ = 0.66. We then find the
wage stickiness parameter that is able to replicate the path of home good prices after the
Mexican devaluation (see figure A.3).
Monetary policy. We set the Taylor rule coefficient on expected inflation to a standard
value of ϕ = 1.5. We calibrate the persistence in the monetary policy rule to ρm = 0.8,
following estimates from Clarida et al. (2000).
Delayed substitution model. We assume that our delayed substitution model applies
equally to domestic and foreign households, with the same parameter θ. We calibrate
the model to the evidence in Boehm, Levchenko and Pandalai-Nayar (2023) (henceforth,
BLP). BLP identify plausibly exogenous changes in tariffs and trace out the entire dynamic
response of trade flows. To be precise, BLP observe how a country A’s exports within an
industry to a specific importing country B respond to a persistent increase in tariffs levied
by B on imports from A. This elasticity captures γ, the elasticity of export demand by the
rest of the world. Figure 7 plots the evidence from their estimates. The left panel shows
the changes in tariffs. The right panel shows the response of trade flows.
We replicate this experiment in our model as follows. We begin by setting γ to 4,
delivering a long-run trade elasticity of 6, well within the consensus range for the long-
term trade elasticity (e.g. Caliendo and Parro 2015). We then interpret the tariff change in
the BLP data as a change in the relative price of home goods abroad d log P∗
Ht, which we
assume follows an AR(1) with persistenceρ. We choose ρ to minimize the sum of squared
distances to the tariff response in the left panel in figure 7, findingρ = 0.989 quarterly. We
then feed this process into (53) and (55) and calibrate θ to minimize the sum of squared
distances to the estimates displayed in the right panel in figure 7. This delivers θ = 0.976
quarterly, which implies a trade elasticity of 0.15 on impact, 0.3 after one quarter, and 0.7
after one year.
46We recalibrate to evidence from other countries in appendix D.5.
39

===== PAGE 40 =====
Figure 7: Calibrating delayed substitution in the quantitative model
0 10 20 30 40
Quarters
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
1.2
1.4
1.6Percent of s.s.
Price of home goods abroad
Data
AR(1)
0 10 20 30 40
Quarters
−1.5
−1.0
−0.5
0.0
0.5
Export of home goods
Data
Fitted model
Note: calibration of delayed substitution in the quantitative model. We fit an AR(1) to the change in tariffs from Boehm, Levchenko and
Pandalai-Nayar (2023) and estimate θ to minimize the sum of squared residuals between the model response and the data response of
the foreign demand for home goods.
5.3 Revisiting contractionary depreciations
We use our quantitative model to revisit the effect of exogenous depreciation shocks.
Proposition 8 showed that, in the benchmark model, these shocks generate output con-
tractions when the trade elasticity χ is small enough. Figure 8 shows that in our quanti-
tative model with a Taylor rule (green line) depreciations are contractionary for one year,
and then expansionary. This is because, in the short run, the quantitative model behaves
similarly to a model with a low static trade elasticity. Over time, households respond
to the depreciation by substituting away from foreign goods, and towards home goods.
This stimulates net exports, and eventually output after 4 quarters. Thus in the medium
to long run, the quantitative model behaves similarly to a model with a high static trade
elasticity.47
5.4 Managing contractionary depreciations
Our analysis shows that depreciations can be contractionary in the short run. We now dis-
cuss how monetary policy should respond if its goal is to stabilize output. The question
is non-trivial, due to the following dilemma: should monetary policy hike interest rates
to fight the depreciation, which is the root cause of the recession? Or should it stimulate
by cutting interest rates, as is traditional to fight a recession? To illustrate this trade-off,
we consider two simple policies.
The red line in figure 9 shows what happens when the central bank stabilizes the ex-
47Appendix D.8 shows that depreciations generate a boom in the quantitative model with a representa-
tive agent.
40

===== PAGE 41 =====
Figure 8: Contractionary depreciations
0 10 20 30
−0.15
−0.10
−0.05
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
Percent of Yss
Output
Taylor rule
Real rate rule
0 10 20 30
−0.25
−0.20
−0.15
−0.10
−0.05
0.00
0.05
0.10
Consumption
0 10 20 30
−0.6
−0.5
−0.4
−0.3
−0.2
−0.1
0.0
0.1
0.2
Net exports
0 10 20 30
−2.5
−2.0
−1.5
−1.0
−0.5
0.0
NFA
0 10 20 30
Quarters
−0.8
−0.6
−0.4
−0.2
0.0
0.2
Percent of Yss
Real wage income
0 10 20 30
Quarters
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
Dividends
0 10 20 30
Quarters
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0Percent of s.s.
Real exchange rate
0 10 20 30
Quarters
−0.02
−0.01
0.00
0.01
0.02
0.03
0.04
Percent
Real interest rate
Note: impulse response in the quantitative model to the shock to ι∗
t from figure 2. The model with Taylor rule is our quantitative
model; the one with real rate rule is our quantitative model without the Taylor rule.
change rate. This policy leads to an even worse recession. The intuition for this finding
is that hiking rates replaces one evil (contractionary depreciation) with another (contrac-
tionary monetary policy), as highlighted by Gourinchas (2018) and Kalemli-Özcan (2019).
The blue line in figure 9 shows the policy that fully stabilizes output. 48 In our quan-
titative model, cutting the real interest rate allows to stabilize output despite making the
depreciation worse. This is because the real income channel is not strong enough to offset
the positive effects of accommodative monetary policy at our calibrated trade elasticity.
Under a lower trade elasticity, however, the output-stabilizing policy involves an interest
rate hike that mitigates the depreciation instead (e.g. with θ = 0.99).
5.5 When does the real income channel matter?
Table 3 explores the role of economy-wide characteristics more systematically. For each
column, we vary one characteristic and re-calibrate the model to match the other mo-
ments from table 2. We report both the impact response of output and its one-year cumu-
lative response. The first column corresponds to our quantitative model, as displayed in
the green line of Figure 8.
The second column shows that lower openness makes the effect of an exchange rate
48This is the unique output-stabilizing policy, which is simple to obtain with our methods by setting the
path of the real interest rate as an additional unknown, and the stable output path as an additional target.
Optimal policy would be very interesting to study, but is still out of reach at present.
41

===== PAGE 42 =====
Figure 9: Policies to deal with contractionary depreciations
0 5 10 15 20 25 30
Quarters
−0.050
−0.025
0.000
0.025
0.050
0.075
0.100
0.125
0.150
Percent
Real rate r and foreign interest rates i∗
Initial shock to i∗
r to ﬁght depreciation
r to ﬁght recession
0 5 10 15 20 25 30
Quarters
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
1.2
1.4Percent of s.s.
Real exchange rate Q
Initial path of Q
Q to ﬁght depreciation
Q to ﬁght recession
0 5 10 15 20 25
Quarters
−0.5
−0.4
−0.3
−0.2
−0.1
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
Output Y
Initial path of Y
Y to ﬁght depreciation
Y to ﬁght recession
Note: impulse responses to the shock toι∗
t from figure 2 with and without monetary policy response. The green line shows the impulse
without monetary policy response. The red dashed line shows the responses when monetary policy stabilizes the real exchange rate.
The blue dash-dotted line shows the responses when monetary policy stabilizes output.
shock on output less contractionary. This is natural, as both the real income channel and
the expenditure switching channel of exchange rates scale with α. Next, we consider an
economy with higher MPC. This amplifies the real income and multiplier channels, lead-
ing depreciations to be significantly more contractionary. The fourth column removes
Dollar Currency Pricing that, as appendix E.1 shows, reduces expenditure switching and
stimulates the profits of exporters. Overall, Dollar Currency Pricing attenuates the con-
traction in our quantitative model. This occurs because households have a relatively high
MPC out of capital income in our calibration, and as a result the increased profits from
exports, visible in the dividend panel of figure 8, stimulate aggregate consumption signif-
icantly. Homothetic preferences and equal incidence of aggregate shocks on workers both
reduce the size of the contraction. A lower short-term substitution elasticity makes the
contraction significantly larger by dampening expenditure switching even more. Finally,
less exchange rate pass-through into import prices reduces the strength of the real income
channel. Since it also dampens domestic expenditure switching, the output response is
scaled down, rather than flipping sign.
These patterns suggest that different countries are likely to respond differently to ex-
change rate depreciations. In appendix D.5, we calibrate the model to seven countries
that have experienced depreciation episodes. We find that the degree of inferred import
price pass-through is the most important cross-country determinant of the magnitude of
the contraction after a depreciation.
42

===== PAGE 43 =====
Quantitative
model
Low trade
openness
High
MPC
No
DCP Homothetic Equal
incidence
Low
ST χ
Low E pass-
through
dY0 - 0.12 - 0.06 - 0.29 - 0.19 - 0.07 - 0.10 - 0.36 - 0.03
∑3
t=0 dYt - 0.24 - 0.13 - 0.83 - 0.45 - 0.04 - 0.18 - 1.16 - 0.14
Note: change on impact and 1-year cumulative impulse response of output to the shock to ι∗
t from figure 2 for various parametric
assumptions. For low trade openness we target a share of import of 20% instead of 40%; for high MPC we target an average quarterly
MPC of 40% instead of 20%; for no DCP we assume full pass-through of domestic prices into export prices ( θH∗ = 0) instead of an
intermediate pass-through (θH∗ = 0.66); for homothetic we target a constant import share across the income distribution ( c = 0); for
equal incidence we assume a constant elasticity of labor income to aggregate income across the income distribution ( ζ = 1); for low
short-term elasticity we set θ = 0.99 to target a trade elasticity of 0.3 after 1 year, instead of 0.7; for low E pass-through, we assume
limited pass-through of exchange rates into import prices (θF = 0.8) instead of full pass-through (θF = 0).
Table 3: Effects of exchange rate shock under various assumptions
5.6 Comparison with balance sheet effects
A well-documented feature of international investment positions is that the net foreign
asset position consists of the difference between gross assets and gross liabilities that are
both very large, and often differ in terms of their risk profile and currency composition
(e.g. Gourinchas and Rey 2007, Lane and Shambaugh 2010). While we cannot easily
capture the risk dimension, we can accommodate currency mismatch in the net foreign
asset position.
We relax the assumption that domestic households hold 100% of their assets in domes-
tic stocks, and that the government has no gross assets or liabilities. Instead, we assume
that one of these has initially borrowed in foreign currency to invest in nominal domes-
tic bonds, while keeping their position in domestic equities unchanged. Throughout, we
assume that gross foreign currency liabilities are 50% of GDP and that all bonds have
an average duration of 18 quarters. Appendix D.6 provides details and shows that this
calibration is an upper bound on the magnitude of valuation effects: data from Bénétrix,
Gautam, Juvenal and Schmitz (2020) show that few countries have historically had such
large gross currency mismatches in their external balance sheets, and that most countries
have dramatically reduced these gross mismatches in the past two decades49.
In Table 4 we report how our results for the output effect of the devaluation (repeated
in the first column) are altered in this scenario. We consider four cases. In the first, called
“Gross positions”, the gross foreign currency debt is held by households in proportion to
their net asset holdings. This brings down the output response by a further 0.09% on im-
pact, and by 0.31% over 1 year. In other words, foreign currency debt causes amplification
49In appendix D.6, we show that currency mismatch does not generate a contraction in the model with
a static trade elasticity equal to χ = 1. Thus, it is the addition of the real income channel and the currency
mismatch that generates large contractions.
43

===== PAGE 44 =====
Baseline Gross positions Gov, lump-sum Gov, proportional tax Gov, deficit-finance
dY0 - 0.12 - 0.21 - 0.36 - 0.26 - 0.24
∑3
t=0 dYt - 0.24 - 0.55 - 0.79 - 0.65 - 0.63
Note: change on impact and 1-year cumulative impulse response of output to the shock to ι∗
t from figure 2 for different balance
sheet specifications. The baseline corresponds to our quantitative model. In the second column we assume that households hold the
equivalent of 50% of annual GDP in debt denominated in foreign currency; for government with lump-sum transfers we assume that
the government owes foreign currency debt and owns local currency assets, and adjusts following the depreciation using lump sum
taxes to balance budget period by period; for government with proportional taxes we assume that taxes are proportional to labor
income; for government deficit-financed we assume that the government does not balance budget period by period but can run a
deficit. In all our specifications we assume that debt takes the form of long-term bonds with average duration of 18 quarters.
Table 4: Balance sheet effects under various distribution assumptions
of the contractionary effect of the depreciation.
In the next three columns, we consider what happens if instead the foreign currency
exposure is held on the government balance sheet, and then financed by households ac-
cording to various tax schemes. The first two columns report the effect of immediately
taxing households lump sum or proportionally, while the third reports the effect of deficit-
financing and taxing later with a proportional tax. The amplification is largest with an
immediate lump-sum tax, which is most regressive. This echoes the findings in de Ferra,
Mitman and Romei (2020) and Zhou (2022), who show that that valuation effects are espe-
cially powerful at reducing output when they are concentrated on high-MPC households.
6 Conclusion
We introduce heterogeneous households in a New Keynesian model of a small open econ-
omy and we show that this new feature is critical to understand the effects of capital flows
and monetary policy. When depreciations pass through quickly to consumer prices but it
takes time for consumers to substitute toward domestic varieties, depreciations become
contractionary. Monetary easing comes with the negative side effects of a depreciated
exchange rate; it leads to current account deficits, and depresses demand in the future.
Stabilization policy balances the costs of high interest rates against the costs of deprecia-
tion created by the real income channel.
44

===== PAGE 45 =====
References
Aggarwal, Rishabh, Adrien Auclert, Matthew Rognlie, and Ludwig Straub, “Excess Savings and
Twin Deficits: The Transmission of Fiscal Stimulus in Open Economies,” NBER Macroeconomics
Annual 2022, May 2023, 37, 325–412.
Aghion, Philippe, Philippe Bacchetta, and Abhijit Banerjee , “A Corporate Balance-Sheet Ap-
proach to Currency Crises,” Journal of Economic Theory, November 2004, 119 (1), 6–30.
Alessandria, George and Horag Choi , “The Dynamics of the U.S. Trade Balance and Real Ex-
change Rate: The J Curve and Trade Costs?,” Journal of International Economics, September 2021,
132, 103511.
, Costas Arkolakis, and Kim J. Ruhl, “Firm Dynamics and Trade,” Annual Review of Economics,
2021, 13 (1), 253–280.
Alvarez, Fernando, Andrew Atkeson, and Patrick J. Kehoe , “Time-Varying Risk, Interest Rates,
and Exchange Rates in General Equilibrium,” Review of Economic Studies, July 2009, 76 (3), 851–
878.
Amiti, Mary, Oleg Itskhoki, and Jozef Konings , “Dominant Currencies: How Firms Choose
Currency Invoicing and Why it Matters,” Quarterly Journal of Economics , August 2022, 137 (3),
1435–1493.
An, Lian, Gil Kim, and Xiaomei Ren, “Is Devaluation Expansionary or Contractionary: Evidence
Based on Vector Autoregression with Sign Restrictions,” Journal of Asian Economics , October
2014, 34, 27–41.
Arkolakis, Costas, Jonathan Eaton, and Samuel Kortum, “Staggered Adjustment and Trade Dy-
namics,” Manuscript, July 2012.
Auclert, Adrien, “Monetary Policy and the Redistribution Channel,” American Economic Review ,
June 2019, 109 (6), 2333–2367.
and Matthew Rognlie, “Inequality and Aggregate Demand,” Working Paper 24280, National
Bureau of Economic Research, February 2018.
, Bence Bardóczy, and Matthew Rognlie, “MPCs, MPEs, and Multipliers: A Trilemma for New
Keynesian Models,” The Review of Economics and Statistics, May 2023, 105 (3), 700–712.
, , , and Ludwig Straub , “Using the Sequence-Space Jacobian to Solve and Estimate
Heterogeneous-Agent Models,” Econometrica, September 2021, 89 (5), 2375–2408.
, Matthew Rognlie, and Ludwig Straub , “Micro Jumps, Macro Humps: Monetary Policy and
Business Cycles in an Estimated HANK Model,” Working Paper 26647, National Bureau of
Economic Research, January 2020.
, , and , “The Intertemporal Keynesian Cross,” Journal of Political Economy , April 2024,
forthcoming.
, , , and Tomáš Tapák, “When do Endogenous Portfolios Matter for HANK?,” Manuscript,
July 2024.
45

===== PAGE 46 =====
, Rodolfo Rigato, Matthew Rognlie, and Ludwig Straub , “New Pricing Models, Same Old
Phillips Curves?,” Quarterly Journal of Economics, February 2024, 139 (1), 121–186.
Auer, Raphael, Ariel Burstein, and Sarah M. Lein , “Exchange Rates and Prices: Evidence from
the 2015 Swiss Franc Appreciation,” American Economic Review, February 2021, 111 (2), 652–686.
, , Katharina Erhardt, and Sarah M. Lein , “Exports and Invoicing: Evidence from the 2015
Swiss Franc Appreciation,” AEA Papers and Proceedings, May 2019, 109, 533–538.
Backus, David K., Patrick J. Kehoe, and Finn E. Kydland , “Dynamics of the Trade Balance and
the Terms of Trade: The J-Curve?,” The American Economic Review, 1994, 84 (1), 84–103.
Baldwin, Richard, “Hysteresis In Import Prices: The Beachhead Effect,” American Economic Re-
view, September 1988, 78 (4), 773–785.
and Paul Krugman, “Persistent Trade Effects of Large Exchange Rate Shocks,”Quarterly Journal
of Economics, November 1989, 104 (4), 635–654.
Barbiero, Omar, “The Valuation Effects of Trade,”Federal Reserve Bank of Boston Working Paper No.
21-11, September 2021.
Baxter, Marianne and Mario J. Crucini , “Business Cycles and the Asset Structure of Foreign
Trade,” International Economic Review, 1995, 36 (4), 821–854.
Bems, Rudolfs and Julian di Giovanni, “Income-Induced Expenditure Switching,” American Eco-
nomic Review, December 2016, 106 (12), 3898–3931.
Bénétrix, Agustín S., Deepali Gautam, Luciana Juvenal, and Martin Schmitz , “Cross-Border
Currency Exposures: New Evidence Based on an Enhanced and Updated Dataset,” SSRN Schol-
arly Paper No 3611655, Social Science Research Network, May 2020.
Bhandari, Anmol, Thomas Bourany, David Evans, and Mikhail Golosov, “A Perturbational Ap-
proach for Approximating Heterogeneous-Agent Models,” Manuscript, 2023.
Bianchi, Javier and Guido Lorenzoni , “Chapter 6 - The Prudential Use of Capital Controls and
Foreign Currency Reserves.,” in Gita Gopinath, Elhanan Helpman, and Kenneth Rogoff, eds.,
Handbook of International Economics, Vol. 6, Elsevier, January 2022, pp. 237–289.
and Louphou Coulibaly , “Liquidity Traps, Prudential Policies and International Spillovers,”
Manuscipt, May 2023.
Blanco, Andrés, Andrés Drenik, and Emilio Zaratiegui , “Nominal Devaluations, Inflation and
Inequality,” Working Paper 32494, National Bureau of Economic Research, May 2024.
Boehm, Christoph E., Andrei A. Levchenko, and Nitya Pandalai-Nayar , “The Long and Short
(Run) of Trade Elasticities,” American Economic Review, April 2023, 113 (4), 861–905.
Boppart, Timo, Per Krusell, and Kurt Mitman, “Exploiting MIT Shocks in Heterogeneous-Agent
Economies: The Impulse Response as a Numerical Derivative,” Journal of Economic Dynamics
and Control, April 2018, 89, 68–92.
46

===== PAGE 47 =====
Borusyak, Kirill and Xavier Jaravel , “The Distributional Effects of Trade: Theory and Evidence
from the United States,” Working Paper 28957, National Bureau of Economic Research June
2021.
Boz, Emine, Camila Casas, Georgios Georgiadis, Gita Gopinath, Helena Le Mezo, Arnaud
Mehl, and Tra Nguyen, “Patterns of Invoicing Currency in Global Trade: New Evidence,”Jour-
nal of International Economics, May 2022, 136, 103604.
Broer, Tobias, Niels-Jakob Harbo Hansen, Per Krusell, and Erik Öberg , “The New Keynesian
Transmission Mechanism: A Heterogeneous-Agent Perspective,” Review of Economic Studies ,
January 2020, 87 (1), 77–101.
Burstein, Ariel and Gita Gopinath, “Chapter 7 - International Prices and Exchange Rates,” in El-
hanan Helpman, Kenneth Rogoff, and Gita Gopinath, eds., Handbook of International Economics,
Vol. 4, Elsevier, 2015, pp. 391–451.
, Martin Eichenbaum, and Sergio Rebelo , “Large Devaluations and the Real Exchange Rate,”
Journal of Political Economy, August 2005, 113 (4), 742–784.
Caballero, Ricardo J and Alp Simsek , “A Model of Endogenous Risk Intolerance and LSAPs:
Asset Prices and Aggregate Demand in a “COVID-19” Shock,” The Review of Financial Studies ,
November 2021, 34 (11), 5522–5580.
Caliendo, Lorenzo and Fernando Parro, “Estimates of the Trade and Welfare Effects of NAFTA,”
Review of Economic Studies, January 2015, 82 (1), 1–44.
Campa, José Manuel and Linda S. Goldberg, “Exchange Rate Pass-Through into Import Prices,”
The Review of Economics and Statistics, November 2005, 87 (4), 679–690.
Carroll, Daniel R. and Sewon Hur , “On the Heterogeneous Welfare Gains and Losses from
Trade,” Journal of Monetary Economics, January 2020, 109, 1–16.
Cavallo, Alberto, Gita Gopinath, Brent Neiman, and Jenny Tang , “Tariff Pass-Through at the
Border and at the Store: Evidence from US Trade Policy,” American Economic Review: Insights ,
March 2021, 3 (1), 19–34.
Céspedes, Luis Felipe, Roberto Chang, and Andrés Velasco, “Balance Sheets and Exchange Rate
Policy,” American Economic Review, 2004, 94 (4), 1183–1193.
Clarida, Richard, Jordi Galí, and Mark Gertler , “Monetary Policy Rules and Macroeconomic
Stability: Evidence and Some Theory,” The Quarterly Journal of Economics, 2000, 115 (1), 147–180.
, , and , “A Simple Framework for International Monetary Policy Analysis,” Journal of
Monetary Economics, July 2002, 49 (5), 879–904.
Cole, Harold L. and Maurice Obstfeld, “Commodity Trade and International Risk Sharing: How
Much Do Financial Markets Matter?,” Journal of Monetary Economics, August 1991, 28 (1), 3–24.
Cooper, Richard N., “Devaluation and Aggregate Demand,” Yale Economic Growth Center Discus-
siono Paper, 1968.
47

===== PAGE 48 =====
Corsetti, Giancarlo and Paolo Pesenti, “Welfare and Macroeconomic Interdependence,”Quarterly
Journal of Economics, May 2001, 116 (2), 421–445.
, Luca Dedola, and Sylvain Leduc , “International Risk Sharing and the Transmission of Pro-
ductivity Shocks,” Review of Economic Studies, April 2008, 75 (2), 443–473.
, Paolo Pesenti, Nouriel Roubini, and Cédric Tille , “Competitive Devaluations: Toward a
Welfare-Based Approach,”Journal of International Economics, June 2000, 51 (1), 217–241.
Cravino, Javier and Andrei A. Levchenko, “The Distributional Consequences of Large Devalua-
tions,” American Economic Review, November 2017, 107 (11), 3477–3509.
Cugat, Gabriela , “Emerging Markets, Household Heterogeneity, and Exchange Rate Policy,”
Manuscript, November 2022.
de Ferra, Sergio, Kurt Mitman, and Federica Romei , “Household Heterogeneity and the Trans-
mission of Foreign Shocks,” Journal of International Economics, May 2020, 124, 1–18.
Díaz-Alejandro, Carlos F., “A Note on the Impact of Devaluation and the Redistributive Effect,”
Journal of Political Economy, 1963, 71 (6), 577–580.
Doepke, Matthias and Martin Schneider, “Inflation and the Redistribution of Nominal Wealth,”
Journal of Political Economy, December 2006, 114 (6), 1069–1097.
Dornbusch, Rudiger, Open Economy Macroeconomics, New York, N.Y: Basic Books, Inc., 1980.
Drozd, Lukasz A and Jaromir B Nosal, “Understanding International Prices: Customers as Capi-
tal,” American Economic Review, February 2012, 102 (1), 364–395.
Drozd, Lukasz A., Sergey Kolbin, and Jaromir B. Nosal , “The Trade-Comovement Puzzle,”
American Economic Journal: Macroeconomics, April 2021, 13 (2), 78–120.
Druedahl, Jeppe, Søren Hove Ravn, Laura Sunder-Plassmann, Jacob Marott Sundram, and
Nicolai Waldstrøm, “The Transmission of Foreign Demand Shocks,” Technical Report, Working
Paper October 2022.
Fagereng, Andreas, Martin B. Holm, and Gisle J. Natvik , “MPC Heterogeneity and Household
Balance Sheets,” American Economic Journal: Macroeconomics, October 2021, 13 (4), 1–54.
Fanelli, Sebastián and Ludwig Straub, “A Theory of Foreign Exchange Interventions,”The Review
of Economic Studies, November 2021, 88 (6), 2857–2885.
Farhi, Emmanuel and Iván Werning, “Chapter 31 - Fiscal Multipliers: Liquidity Traps and Cur-
rency Unions,” in Harald Uhlig and John B. Taylor, eds., Handbook of Macroeconomics , Vol. 2,
Elsevier, 2016, pp. 2417–2492.
and , “Fiscal Unions,” American Economic Review, December 2017, 107 (12), 3788–3834.
and , “Monetary Policy, Bounded Rationality, and Incomplete Markets,” American Economic
Review, November 2019, 109 (11), 3887–3928.
Feenstra, Robert C., Philip Luck, Maurice Obstfeld, and Katheryn N. Russ , “In Search of the
Armington Elasticity,” Review of Economics and Statistics, August 2017, 100 (1), 135–150.
48

===== PAGE 49 =====
Fitzgerald, Doireann and Stefanie Haller , “Exporters and Shocks,” Journal of International Eco-
nomics, July 2018, 113, 154–171.
Frankel, Jeffrey A., “Mundell-Fleming Lecture: Contractionary Currency Crashes in Developing
Countries,” IMF Staff Papers, April 2005, 52 (2), 149–192.
Fukui, Masao, Emi Nakamura, and Jón Steinsson , “The Macroeconomic Consequences of Ex-
change Rate Depreciations,” May 2023.
Gabaix, Xavier and Matteo Maggiori , “International Liquidity and Exchange Rate Dynamics,”
Quarterly Journal of Economics, August 2015, 130 (3), 1369–1420.
Galí, Jordi, Monetary Policy, Inflation, and the Business Cycle: An Introduction to the New Keynesian
Framework, Princeton University Press, February 2008.
and Tommaso Monacelli , “Monetary Policy and Exchange Rate Volatility in a Small Open
Economy,” Review of Economic Studies, July 2005, 72 (3), 707–734.
Gertler, Mark, Simon Gilchrist, and Fabio M. Natalucci , “External Constraints on Monetary
Policy and the Financial Accelerator,” Journal of Money, Credit and Banking , 2007, 39 (2-3), 295–
330.
Giagheddu, Marta , “The Distributional Implications of Fiscal Devaluations,” Working Paper
3651258, Social Science Research Network, March 2020.
Gopinath, Gita, “The International Price System,” Jackson Hole Symposium Proceedings, 2016.
, Emine Boz, Camila Casas, Federico J. Díez, Pierre-Olivier Gourinchas, and Mikkel
Plagborg-Møller, “Dominant Currency Paradigm,” American Economic Review, March 2020, 110
(3), 677–719.
Gourinchas, Pierre-Oliver, “Monetary Policy Transmission in Emerging Markets: An Application
to Chile,” Series on Central Banking Analysis and Economic Policies no. 25, 2018.
Gourinchas, Pierre-Olivier and Helene Rey , “From World Banker to World Venture Capitalist:
U.S. External Adjustment and the Exorbitant Privilege,” in “G7 Current Account Imbalances:
Sustainability and Adjustment,” University of Chicago Press, 2007, pp. 11–66.
Guo, Xing, Pablo Ottonello, and Diego J. Perez , “Monetary Policy and Redistribution in Open
Economies,” Journal of Political Economy Macroeconomics, March 2023, 1 (1), 191–241.
Guvenen, Fatih, Luigi Pistaferri, and Giovanni L. Violante , The Global Repository of Income Dy-
namics https://www.grid-database.org/. Accessed 03.11.2023. 2022.
Harberger, Arnold C., “Currency Depreciation, Income, and the Balance of Trade,” Journal of Po-
litical Economy, February 1950, 58 (1), 47–60.
Heathcote, Jonathan and Fabrizio Perri, “Financial Autarky and International Business Cycles,”
Journal of Monetary Economics, 2002, 49 (3), 601–627.
Hong, Seungki, “MPCs in an Emerging Economy: Evidence from Peru,” Journal of International
Economics, January 2023, 140, 103712.
49

===== PAGE 50 =====
Hooper, Peter, Karen H. Johnson, and Jaime R. Marquez , Trade elasticities for the G-7 countries
number no. 87. In ‘Princeton Studies in International Economics.’ 2000.
Ilzetzki, Ethan, Carmen M. Reinhart, and Kenneth S. Rogoff, “Exchange Arrangements Entering
the Twenty-First Century: Which Anchor will Hold?,” Quarterly Journal of Economics, May 2019,
134 (2), 599–646.
Itskhoki, Oleg, “The Story of the Real Exchange Rate,” Annual Review of Economics , 2021, 13 (1),
423–455.
and Dmitry Mukhin, “Exchange Rate Disconnect in General Equilibrium,” Journal of Political
Economy, August 2021, 129 (8), 2183–2232.
Jappelli, T ullio and Luigi Pistaferri, “Fiscal Policy and MPC Heterogeneity,” American Economic
Journal: Macroeconomics, October 2014, 6 (4), 107–136.
Johnson, David S., Jonathan A. Parker, and Nicholas S. Souleles, “Household Expenditure and
the Income Tax Rebates of 2001,” American Economic Review, December 2006, 96 (5), 1589–1610.
Kalemli-Özcan, S. ebnem, “U.S. Monetary Policy and International Risk Spillovers,” Jackson Hole
Symposium Proceedings, September 2019.
Kamin, Steve B. and John H. Rogers, “Output and the Real Exchange Rate in Developing Coun-
tries: An Application to Mexico,”Journal of Development Economics, February 2000,61 (1), 85–109.
Kaplan, Greg, Benjamin Moll, and Giovanni L. Violante , “Monetary Policy According to
HANK,” American Economic Review, March 2018, 108 (3), 697–743.
Krugman, Paul, “Adjustment in the World Economy,” Working Paper 2424, National Bureau of
Economic Research, October 1987.
and Lance Taylor, “Contractionary Effects of Devaluation,” Journal of International Economics ,
August 1978, 8 (3), 445–456.
Lane, Philip R. and Jay C. Shambaugh , “Financial Exchange Rates and International Currency
Exposures,” American Economic Review, March 2010, 100 (1), 518–540.
Laursen, Svend and Lloyd A. Metzler, “Flexible Exchange Rates and the Theory of Employment,”
The Review of Economics and Statistics, 1950, 32 (4), 281–299.
Magalhaes, Leandro De, Enric Martorell-Toledano, and Raül Santaeulalia-Llopis, “Transfer Pro-
gressivity and Development,” July 2022.
McKay, Alisdair and Johannes F. Wieland, “Lumpy Durable Consumption Demand and the Lim-
ited Ammunition of Monetary Policy,” Econometrica, November 2021, 89 (6), 2717–2749.
, Emi Nakamura, and Jón Steinsson , “The Power of Forward Guidance Revisited,” American
Economic Review, October 2016, 106 (10), 3133–3158.
Mendoza, Enrique G., “Real Business Cycles in a Small Open Economy,” The American Economic
Review, 1991, 81 (4), 797–818.
50

===== PAGE 51 =====
Mian, Atif, Ludwig Straub, and Amir Sufi , “Indebted Demand,” Quarterly Journal of Economics ,
November 2021, 136 (4), 2243–2307.
Monacelli, Tommaso, “Monetary Policy in a Low Pass-through Environment,” Journal of Money,
Credit and Banking, 2005, 37 (6), 1047–1066.
Obstfeld, Maurice and Kenneth Rogoff , “Exchange Rate Dynamics Redux,” Journal of Political
Economy, June 1995, 103 (3), 624–660.
Oskolkov, Aleksei, “Exchange Rate Policy and Heterogeneity in Small Open Economies,” Journal
of International Economics, May 2023, 142, 103750.
Otten, Julia Isabelle , “Household Heterogeneity and the Adjustment to External Shocks,”
in “Three Essays on Household Heterogeneity and Macroeconomic Dynamics,” Humboldt-
Universität zu Berlin, March 2021.
Polak, J. J., “The Foreign Trade Multiplier,” The American Economic Review, 1947, 37 (5), 889–897.
Rouwenhorst, K. Geert , “Asset Pricing Implications of Equilibrium Business Cycle Models,” in
Thomas F. Cooley, ed., Frontiers of Business Cycle Research , princeton university press ed. 1995,
pp. 294–330.
Ruhl, Kim J., “The International Elasticity Puzzle,” Manuscript, 2008.
Sokolova, Anna, “Marginal Propensity to Consume and Unemployment: A Meta-Analysis,” Re-
view of Economic Dynamics, September 2023.
Tille, Cédric , “The Role of Consumption Substitutability in the International Transmission of
Monetary Shocks,” Journal of International Economics, April 2001, 53 (2), 421–444.
Uribe, Martín and Stephanie Schmitt-Grohé , Open Economy Macroeconomics , Princeton, NJ:
Princeton University Press, April 2017.
Werning, Iván, “Incomplete Markets and Aggregate Demand,” Working Paper 21448, National
Bureau of Economic Research, August 2015.
Woodford, Michael, “Simple Analytics of the Government Expenditure Multiplier,”American Eco-
nomic Journal: Macroeconomics, 2011, 3 (1), 1–35.
Zhou, Haonan, “Open Economy, Redistribution, and the Aggregate Impact of External Shocks,”
Manuscript, February 2022.
51

===== PAGE 52 =====
Online Appendix for “Exchange Rates and
Monetary Policy with Heterogeneous Agents:
Sizing up the Real Income Channel”
A Appendix to section 2
A.1 Model setup
Here we provide additional details on the setup of the model in section 2.
Preferences across goods. In our baseline model, consumption cit of any agent i living in any
country aggregates their home good H and a composite foreign good F with elasticity η,
cit =

(1 − α)
1
η (ciHt )
η−1
η + α
1
η (ciFt )
η−1
η
 η
η−1
home consumption aggregates goods j produced at home, while foreign consumption aggregates
goods produced in a continuum of countries k:
ciHt =
Z 1
0
ciHt (j)
ϵ−1
ϵ dj
 ϵ
ϵ−1
ciFt =
Z 1
0
cikt
γ−1
γ dk
 γ
γ−1
with ϵ > 1, γ > 0 and η > 0. In turn, consumption from country k aggregates goods produced
there with the same elasticity ϵ as that used to aggregate goods produced at home,
cikt =
Z 1
0
cikt (j)
ϵ−1
ϵ dj
 ϵ
ϵ−1
Writing Ait for the nominal value of end-of-period assets andAp
it for the nominal value of beginning-
of-period assets including returns, the agent’s budget constraint is
Z 1
0
PHt (j) ciHt (j) dj +
Z 1
0
Z 1
0
Pkt (j) cikt (j) djdk + Ait+1 ≤ A p
it + eitWtNt
hence, consumer i’s demand for goodj in country k is
cikt (j) = α
 Pkt (j)
Pkt
−ϵ Pkt
PFt
−γ PFt
Pt
−η
cit
while their demand for good j in the home country is
ciHt (j) = (1 − α)
 PHt (j)
PHt
−ϵ PHt
Pt
−η
cit
Applying this demand system to the heterogeneous agents at home, indexed by their state (a, e),
delivers equations (10) and (11). Applying this demand system to the representative foreign
A-1

===== PAGE 53 =====
agents, noting that all foreign countries are symmetric and prices are flexible abroad so that
P∗
Ft = P∗
t , delivers
C∗
Ht = α
 P∗
Ht
P∗
t
−γ
C∗
t
which is equation (12).
Foreign agents. All foreign countries are symmetric. As discussed in section 2.1, in each foreign
country lives a representative foreign agent with utility
∞
∑
t=0
(β∗)t Bt {u (C∗
t ) − v (N∗
t )} (A.1)
where β∗ is the foreign discount factor, andBt is a utility modifier capturing time-varying patience
for the foreign household. We assume that Bt has initial value B−1 = 1, is nonnegative and
bounded, Bt ∈
 
0, B

for B > 0, and reverts to 1 in the long run: B∞ = 1.
Foreign countries produce their own good under constant returns to scale with production
function
Y∗
t = Z∗N∗
t
Prices and wages are flexible abroad, so that
P∗
t = µ W∗
t
Z∗
The home country is infinitesimal, so that market clearing for the composite foreign good is
C∗
t = Y∗
t
The first order conditions for a representative foreign agent are
v′ (N∗
t )
u′ (C∗
t ) = W∗
t
P∗
t
and
Bt (C∗
t )−σ = β∗ (1 + r∗
t ) Bt+1 (C∗
t+1)−σ (A.2)
where r∗
t denotes the foreign interest rate. It follows that the world equilibrium features a constant
level of consumption C∗ (and output Y∗ = C∗) given by
v′ (C∗/Z∗)
u′ (C∗) = Z∗
µ
and that the real interest rate r∗
t is given by (A.2) when C∗
t = C∗
t+1 = C∗. The central bank targets
a constant price index P∗, which it achieves by setting the foreign interest rate according to price-
level targeting rule with the natural rater∗
t as an intercept, ι∗
t = r∗
t + ϕ log (P∗
t /P∗). In equilibrium,
the foreign nominal and real interest rates are equal, and relate to the discount factor shocks Bt
according to (16). The primitive shocks in our economy are the sequence of Bt’s. Alternatively,
given (16), we can construct this sequence for a given exogenous sequence of foreign interest rates
A-2

===== PAGE 54 =====
ι∗
t ’s and the fact that limBt = 1, from
Bt = ∏
s≥t
1 + i∗
s
1/β∗

so that high Bt corresponds to high current or future foreign interest rate ι∗
t relative to the steady
state foreign interest rate 1/β∗.
A.2 Key equilibrium relations
Current account identity. Start by aggregating up household budgets in equation (9), using
Eeit = 1,
Ct + At = Ap
t + Wt
Pt
Nt
Next, note that, for all t ≥ 1, (8) together with the asset pricing equation (7) implies Ap
t =
(1 + rt−1) At−1. Using the definition of the NFA in (22), we obtain, for t ≥ 1,
Ct + pt + nfat = (1 + rt−1) pt−1 + (1 + rt−1) nfat−1 + Wt
Pt
Nt
Using the asset pricing equation (7) again, (1 + rt−1) pt−1 = pt + dt, so we can rearrange the
equation above as
nfat − nfat−1 = dt + Wt
Pt
Nt − Ct + rt−1nfat−1
Using the expression for dividends (15) together with the law of one price (17), which implies that
domestic producers do not have any unhedged currency exposure, we finally have dt + Wt
Pt
Nt =
PHt
Pt
Yt, so
nfat − nfat−1 = PHt
Pt
Yt − Ct
| {z }
NXt
+rt−1nfat−1 (A.3)
which is the current account identity. 50 Note that we have defined net exports NXt (the trade
balance) in units of the consumption basket. Alternatively, since consumption is defined as Ct ≡
PFt
Pt
CFt + PHt
Pt
CHt, and using the goods market clearing condition (21), we find:
NXt ≡ PHt
Pt
Yt − Ct = PHt
Pt
C∗
Ht − PFt
Pt
CFt (A.4)
Other key relations. Combining the goods market clearing condition (21) with the equations
for demand for domestic goods (11) and (12), the law of one price (17), and the foreign monetary
policy condition, implying P∗
t = 1 and C∗
t = C∗, we see that domestic output is always given by
Yt = (1 − α)
 PHt
Pt
−η
Ct + α
 PHt
Et
−γ
C∗ (A.5)
50At date 0, the right-hand side of (A.3) also includes a term Ap
0 − (1 + r−1)A−1, reflecting valuation
effects.
A-3

===== PAGE 55 =====
which is equation (33) in the main text. Combining instead the net export equation (A.4) with
these same equations, together with the law of one price for foreign goods PFt = Et, we see that
the trade balance is always given by
NXt = α PHt
Pt
 PHt
Et
−γ
C∗ − α Et
Pt
 Et
Pt
−η
Ct (A.6)
We next relate all relative prices in equations (A.5) and (A.6) to the real exchange rate Qt. First,
we note that definition of the real exchange rate in (6) combined with P∗
t = 1 implies Qt = Et
Pt
.
Manipulating the price index equation (4), we then see that Qt is connected to the relative price of
home goods PHt/Pt through
1 =
"
(1 − α)
 PHt
Pt
1−η
+ αQ1−η
t
# 1
1−η
(A.7)
We denote by pH (Q) the mapping between PH
P and Q implicit in equation (A.7). We can also
rewrite (A.7) to relate the real exchange rate Qt to the relative price of home and foreign goods
(the inverse of the terms of trade) PHt/Et via
Q−1
t =
"
(1 − α)
 PHt
Et
1−η
+ α
# 1
1−η
(A.8)
We let p∗
H (Q) denote the mapping between the inverse terms of tradePH/E and the real exchange
rate Q implicit in this equation.
Taken together, equations (A.5), (A.6), (A.7) and (A.8) imply that the level of the real exchange
rate Qt and aggregate domestic spending Ct uniquely determine the level of domestic output on
the one hand,
Yt = (1 − α) (pH (Qt))−η Ct + α (p∗
H (Qt))−γ C∗ (A.9)
and the trade balance on the other,
NXt = αpH (Qt) (p∗
H (Qt))−γ C∗ − α (Qt)1−η Ct (A.10)
Combining the price-setting condition (14) with the production function (13), we see that real
wage income is
Wt
Pt
Nt = 1
µ
PHt
Pt
Yt (A.11)
i.e. a fixed fraction 1
µ of aggregate real income PHt
Pt
Yt. Then, combining (A.11) with (15), and using
the law of one price (17), we see that real dividends are equal to
dt =

1 − 1
µ
 PHt
Pt
Yt (A.12)
i.e. also a fixed fraction of aggregate real income.
Finally, combining the relation between Bt and foreign real interest rates in (16) with the real
UIP condition (7), we find that 1 + r∗
t = 1
β∗
Bt
Bt+1
= (1 + rt) Qt
Qt+1
, and therefore for all t ≥ 0,
Qt
Bt
= 1
β∗(1 + rt)
Qt+1
Bt+1
(A.13)
A-4

===== PAGE 56 =====
In a steady state, equation (A.13) implies that the domestic real interest rate isrss = (β∗)−1 − 1.
Given a sequence {rt, Bt}, with B∞ = 1, and our focus on a steady state with Q∞ = Qss, we can
therefore always solve for Qt as
Qt = Bt · ∏
s≥t
1 + rss
1 + rs

· Qss (A.14)
A.3 Characterizing steady states
Consider a steady state of this model, with a constant level of all aggregates{C, CH, CF, Y, A, p, d, nfa}
and relative real prices {Q, PH/P, W/P, r, i∗}, for given constant foreign discount factor shocks B
and productivity Z. The steady-state version of equation (A.13) implies that the domestic real
interest rate is r = i∗ = (β∗)−1 − 1. Equations (A.11) and (A.12) imply that the long-run real wage
and dividends are given, respectively, by
W
P = 1
µ
PH
P
Y
N = 1
µ pH (Q) Y
N
d =

1 − 1
µ

pH (Q) Y
The asset pricing equation (7) then implies that the domestic stock price is
p = 1
r

1 − 1
µ

pH (Q) Y
The current account identity (A.3) implies that, in steady state,
r · nfa = −NX = C − pH (Q) Y (A.15)
Goods market clearing (A.9) implies
Y = (1 − α) (pH (Q))−η C + α (p∗
H (Q))−γ C∗ (A.16)
Finally, the wage Phillips curve (18), together with the production function in (13), Y = ZN,
implies that long-run wage (and price) inflation rate is equal to
πw = 1
1 − β κw
 
v′ (Y/Z)
1
µ w
1
µ pH (Q) Zu′ (C) − 1
!
(A.17)
A steady state in our model is characterized by a 4-tuple (Y, Q, C, nfa) for output, the real ex-
change rate, consumption and the net foreign position, that simultaneously satisfies equations
(A.15) and (A.16). A zero-inflation steady state additionally restricts this tuple to satisfy equation
(A.17) with πw = 0. In principle, there is a one-dimensional family of zero-inflation steady states,
but stationary models add one equation.
Stationary models. In a stationary model, there exists an aggregate consumption function
Css (r, pH (Q) Y) such that aggregate consumption in the steady state is only a function of the real
A-5

===== PAGE 57 =====
interest rate r, the real exchange rate Q, and the level of output Y, ie:
C = Css (r, Q, Y) (A.18)
Hence, in a stationary model, equation (A.18) gives an additional relation between (Y, Q, C, nfa)
that a steady state must satisfy. Given that a zero-inflation steady state must generally satisfy all
four of (A.15)–(A.18), there is generally a unique such steady state. Given r ̸= 0, in a stationary
model (A.15) pins down a unique long-run level of nfa for any level of real income pH (Q) Y.
By contrast, in a non-stationary model, any long-run level of nfa can be consistent with a given
(r, pH (Q) Y) pair provided that (A.15) is satisfied. RA-IM and TA-IM are nonstationary; all other
models in the paper are stationary.
Initial steady state. We pick the initial steady-state of the economy as follows. We choose
β∗ to deliver our target for the real interest rate r, and normalize C∗ = Q = 1 so that all relative
prices are 1. Then, equation (A.15) implies that C = Y + rnfa, while equation (A.16) implies that
Y = (1 − α) C + α, so that
Y = 1 + 1 − α
α · r · nfa and C = 1 + 1
α · r · nfa (A.19)
We finally set Z = 1 and solve for the scaling parameter in labor disutility v′ such that equation
(A.17) holds for these values ofY and C, given our choice for µ w, µ , and the initial steady state nfa.
In our baseline calibration we set nfa = 0, so that these normalizations imply Y = C = 1. Finally,
we pick the discount rate at home β so that (A.18) holds with C = Q = Y = 1 and our target r.
Unique steady state with Q = 1. After transitory foreign impatience or monetary policy
shocks, the model always returns to a steady state, though not necessarily a zero inflation steady
state. In stationary models, there is a one-dimensional set of such steady states, characterized by
the 4-tuples (Y, Q, C, nfa) such that (A.18), (A.15) and (A.16) simultaneously hold. The unique
steady state with Q = 1 is therefore the initial steady state, which in our baseline features Y =
C = 1, nfa = 0 and πw = 0, i.e. it is also the zero-inflation steady state. In our analysis, we
focus on transitions that converge to a steady state with Q∞ = 1. This is equivalent to studying
a model in which monetary policy selects a long-run steady state with zero inflation, or one in
which monetary policy follows the Taylor rule ιt = rss + ϕπt+1 + ϵt with ϕ → 1.
In non-stationary models, there is a uniqueC and nfa consistent with any given path{rt, pH (Qt) Yt}
(see for instance the RA-IM model in section A.6). Given{r∗
t , rt}, any given long-run Q pins down
the path of Qt and therefore also C, nfa, and Y via (A.16). Hence, in a non-stationary model, there
is again a unique steady-state with Q = 1, but it generally features non-zero nfa and inflation.
A.4 Complete markets
We follow Auclert et al. (2024b) and set up the model with complete markets with respect to
aggregate risk by considering a situation where aggregate shocks occur only at date 0, and are
anticipated to do so with some mean-0 distribution at datet = −1. Taking the limit as the standard
deviation of shocks goes to 0, we recover the same equations as under linearized perfect-foresight,
together with an additional condition pinning down portfolios in the steady state.
A-6

===== PAGE 58 =====
General setting. We begin by slightly generalizing the setting of section 2 so that it can nest
RA, TA and HA models. We do this by allowing for different fixed types of households i, with
their own discount factor βi and asset constraints ai, ai. At any time t = −∞ . . .∞, the Bellman
equation for household type i is
˜Vit

s, BH, BF, e

= max
cF,cH,s′,BH′,BF′
u (cF, cH) − v (Nt) + βiEt
h
˜Vit+1

s′, BH′, BF′, e′

|e
i
s.t. PFtcF + PHtcH + Pts′ + BH′ + EtBF′ (A.20)
= (Pt + Dt) s + (1 + ιt−1) BH + (1 + ι∗
t−1) EtBF + eWtNt
Pts + BH′ + EtBF′ ∈

Ptai, Ptai

Here, the Et [·] operator takes expectations with respect to idiosyncratic risk and, at date t = −1,
also aggregate risk.
At date 0, an aggregate shock realizes, and there is no uncertainty going forward. Hence, as in
the main text, for t ≥ 0, households solve the perfect foresight problem:
Vit (ap, e) = max
c,a′
u (c) − v (Nt) + βiEt

Vit+1
 
(1 + rt) a′, e′
|e

s.t. c + a′ = ap + eWt
Pt
Nt (A.21)
a′ ∈

ai, ai

We write ϵ for the random variable representing the aggregate shock realizing at date 0, and
assume ϵ to have a mean-0 distribution. The problem of a household coming into period −1 with
their consolidated position ap and skill level e is (making the dependence on the realization of ϵ
explicit):
Vi−1 (ap, e) = max
c,s′,BH′,BF′
u (c) + βiEϵ

V0i
 (P0 (ϵ) + D0 (ϵ)) s′ + (1 + ι0 (ϵ)) BH′ + (1 + ι∗
0 (ϵ)) E0 (ϵ) BF′
P0 (ϵ) , e′; ϵ

|e

s.t. P−1c + P−1s′ + BH′ + E−1BF′ = P−1ap + eW−1N−1 (A.22)
P−1s′ + BH′ + E−1BF′ ∈

P−1ai, P−1ai

We split the problem in (A.22) into two subproblems. First, we consider the portfolio allocation
problem, for given asset choice a’:
Wi
 
a′, e

≡ max Eϵ

V0i
 (P0 (ϵ) + D0 (ϵ)) s′ + (1 + ι0 (ϵ)) BH′ + (1 + ι∗
0 (ϵ)) E0 (ϵ) BF′
P0 (ϵ) , e′; ϵ

|e

(A.23)
s.t. P−1s′ + BH′ + E−1BF′
P−1
= a′
A-7

===== PAGE 59 =====
We note that the problem in (A.22) rewrites as:
Vi−1 (ap, e) = max
c,a′
u (c) + βiWi
 
a′, e

s.t. c + a′ = ap + eW−1
P−1
N−1 (A.24)
a′ ∈

ai, ai

which is similar to the steady state version of (9), with the value function Wi (a′, e) instead of
E [Vi,ss ((1 + rss) a′, e′) |e] and aggregate wage income W−1
P−1
N−1 instead of Wss
Pss
Nss.
We write the date-0 distribution of shocks as ϵ = ϵσ, and consider a first-order expansion in σ
of the solution to the model. Since all derivatives of objects in the model after date 0 are multiples
of ϵ, and since Eϵ [ϵ] = 0, derivatives of objects with respect to σ prior to date 0 are zero. Hence,
we have that
Wi
 
a′, e

= Eϵ

Vi,ss
 
(1 + rss) a′, e′
|e

+ O
 
σ2
W−1
P−1
N−1 = Wss
Pss
Nss + O
 
σ2
so to first order inσ, the problem in (A.24) is the steady state problem. In other words, to first order,
the consumption-savings problem at date −1 is the same as the consumption-savings problem in
the steady state with no aggregate risk. This is an instance of first-order certainty equivalence.
Rewriting the portfolio choice problem. Define ωs ≡ P−1s′
P−1
, ωBH ≡ BH′
P−1
, and ωBF ≡ E−1BF′
P−1
,
to be total exposure to stocks, domestic and foreign bonds in the portfolio. Note that
ωs + ωBH + ωBF = a′
and that, defining the real stock return as
1 + rs (ϵ) ≡ (P0 (ϵ) + D0 (ϵ))
P−1
P−1
P0 (ϵ)
and denoting excess real returns of the domestic and foreign bond over the stock as
rx,BH
(ϵ) ≡ (1 + ι0 (ϵ)) P−1
P0 (ϵ) − (1 + rs (ϵ))
rx,BF
(ϵ) ≡ (1 + ι∗
0 (ϵ)) E0 (ϵ)
E−1
P−1
P0 (ϵ) − (1 + rs (ϵ))
we can rewrite real cash-on-hand coming into period 0 as:
(P0 (ϵ) + D0 (ϵ)) s′ + (1 + ι0 (ϵ)) BH′ + (1 + ι∗
0 (ϵ)) E0 (ϵ) BF′
P0 (ϵ)
= rx,BH
(ϵ) ωBH + rx,BF
(ϵ) ωBF + (1 + rs (ϵ)) a′ (A.25)
Next, define the value function
J(x, a′, e; ϵ) ≡ E

V0(x + (1 + rs (ϵ)) a′, e′; ϵ)|e

(A.26)
A-8

===== PAGE 60 =====
as a function of excess returns x over the domestic stock. 51 The portfolio problem in (A.23) can
then be rewritten as
W(a′, e) = max
ωs,ωBH ,ωBF
Eϵ
h
J

rx,BH
(ϵ) ωBH + rx,BF
(ϵ) ωBF, a′, e; ϵ
i
(A.27)
The first-order condition for ωk in this problem is:
Eϵ
h
rx,k(ϵ)Jx

rx,BH
(ϵ) ωBH + rx,BF
(ϵ) ωBF, a′, e; ϵ
i
= 0 k ∈
n
BH, BF
o
(A.28)
Consider two agents i, j, with different (a′, e), choosing portfolios ωi
k, ωj
k. Dividing by the value of
Jx at ϵ = 0, and subtracting the two conditions (A.28) gives:
Eϵ
h
rx,k(ϵ)gij (ϵ)
i
= 0 (A.29)
where we have defined
gij (ϵ) ≡
Ji
x

rx,BH
(ϵ) ωi
BH + rx,BF
(ϵ) ωi
BF; ϵ

Jix (0; 0)
−
Jj
x

rx,BH
(ϵ) ωj
BH + rx,BF
(ϵ) ωj
BF; ϵ

Jj
x (0; 0)
Perturbation to get the portfolio. We want to perform a second-order expansion of (A.29)
around σ = 0, where ϵ = ϵσ. Given any k, i, j, define
f (σ) ≡ Eϵ
h
rx,k(σϵ)gij (σϵ)
i
Note that we have:
f ′ (σ) = Eϵ
h
ϵrx,k
ϵ (σϵ)gij (σϵ) + ϵrx,k(σϵ)gij
ϵ (σϵ)
i
so, since Eϵ [ϵ] = 0, we have f ′ (0) = 0. Moreover, we have:
f ′′ (σ) = Eϵ
h
ϵ2rx,k
ϵϵ (σϵ) f ij (σϵ) + ϵrx,k
ϵ (σϵ)gij
ϵ (σϵ) + ϵ2rx,k(σϵ)gij
ϵϵ (σϵ)
i
so, since gij (0) = rx,k(0) = 0, we have
f ′′ (0) = Eϵ
h
ϵ2rx,k
ϵϵ (0) f ij (0) + ϵ2rx,k
ϵ (0)gij
ϵ (0) + ϵ2rx,k(0)gij
ϵϵ (σϵ)
i
= Eϵ

ϵ2
rx,k
ϵ (0)gij
ϵ (0)
Hence, (A.29) implies that, to second order in σ, we have
Eϵ

ϵ2
rx,k
ϵ (0)gij
ϵ (0) = 0
51Note that we could have picked any benchmark asset against which to measure excess returns. Here we
choose the domestic stock, which is natural here because 100% domestic stock portfolios is our incomplete
markets assumption.
A-9

===== PAGE 61 =====
Provided that the excess return of at least one of the two assets k ∈

BH, BF	
is sensitive to ϵ to
first order, ie rx,k
ϵ (0) ̸= 0, we therefore must have, at the optimal portfolio choice:
gij
ϵ (0) = 0
This also says that, to first order in σ, we must have for every ϵ
d log Ji
x(rx,BH
(ϵ) ωi
BH + rx,BF
(ϵ) ωi
BF, ϵ) = d log Jj
x(rx,BH
(ϵ) ωj
BH + rx,BF
(ϵ) ωj
BF, ϵ) (A.30)
for all agents i, j. Note that, by the envelope theorem applied to (A.26), we also have:
Ji
x(rx,BH
(ϵ) ωi
BH + rx,BF
(ϵ) ωi
BF, ϵ) ≡ E
h
u′

ci(ϵ, e′)

|e
i
where ci(ϵ, e′) is the consumption of individual i if aggregate and individual states are realized as
(ϵ, e′).
So equation (A.30) says that, at the optimal portfolio choice, for any realization of ϵ (which we
index by time for convenience), there exists a constant λ0 such that, for all (a′, e), we have:
E[u′(c0,i(ap
0, e′))|e]
E[u′(css,i(ap
ss, e′))|e] = λ0 (A.31)
Foreigner’s problem. The same logic applies to foreigners, but their marginal utility in terms
of the domestic consumption bundle adds a factor of B0
Q0
, where B0 is the foreigner’s intertemporal
utility shifter and Q0 is the real exchange rate, converting the domestic consumption basket into
the foreigner’s consumption basket. Hence, (A.31) for the foreigner reads
B0
Q0
u′ (C∗
0 )
Bss
Qss
u′ (C∗ss)
= λ0
Since we normalize Bss = Qss = 1 and since our assumptions imply that C∗
0 = C∗
ss, this simplifies
to
B0
Q0
= λ0 (A.32)
Equating λ0 in (A.31) and (A.32), in the special case in which there is a single type of agent, we
finally obtain (24). The case with many types of agents follows straightforwardly.
A.5 Proof of Proposition 1
We show that aggregate domestic consumption depends only on the path of the value of home
production deflated by the domestic CPI,
n
PHt
Pt
Yt
o
, and the path of ex-ante real interest rates {rt}.
We first consider policies. Observe that the only time-varying aggregate inputs that affect
consumption decisions in (9) are real labor earnings Wt
Pt
Nt, which equals 1
µ
PHt
Pt
Yt, and ex-ante real
interest rates rt. Hence, for all t ≥ 0, consumption policies ct over the states (ap, e) depend only
on the time path of future { PHs
Ps
Ys} and {rs}, for s ≥ t.
We next consider aggregation for dates t ≥ 1. For these dates, the optimal policy from (9)
induces a law of motion from Dt−1(ap, e) to Dt(ap, e). Given our result on policies, we therefore
also have that the distribution Dt(ap, e) depends only on { PHs
Ps
Ys} and {rs} for s ≥ 0. Hence, for
A-10

===== PAGE 62 =====
all t ≥ 1, aggregate consumption Ct ≡R
ct (ap, e) dDt (ap, e) only depends on { PHs
Ps
Ys} and {rs} for
s ≥ 0
We finally consider aggregation at t = 0. Here, we consider separately the incomplete and
complete markets cases.
Incomplete markets. Since domestic agents are assumed to initially hold 100% of their port-
folios in domestic stocks, the only other determinant of aggregate consumption is the date-0 real
value of the stock, which is P0+D0
P0
, determining ap
0 through (8). Iterating forward on (7), this equals
the present value of the profit share of output:
P0 + D0
P0
= ∑
t≥0
∏
s≤t
 1
1 + rs

1 − 1
µ
 PHt
Pt
Yt (A.33)
Hence, aggregate consumption at date 0 is also a function of { PHs
Ps
Ys} and {rs}, for s ≥ 0. In
conclusion, we can write Ct
n
PHs
Ps
Ys
o
, {rs}

for all t ≥ 0.
Complete markets. Here, equation (30) implies that we have Q0 = B0 · ∏s≥0

1+rss
1+rs

, so that
(24) becomes
E
h
c0
 
ap
0, e′−σ
|e
i
=
"
∏
s≥0
1 + rss
1 + rs
#−1
E
h
css
 
ap
ss, e′−σ
|e
i
for every agent choosing a′, e. This equation determines ap
0 in (9) as a function of the time path
of{ PHs
Ps
Ys} and {rs}. Hence, again, we can write aggregate consumption at datet as Ct
n
PHs
Ps
Ys
o
, {rs}

for all t ≥ 0. This completes the proof.
A.6 Representative-agent model
In the representative agent model, under both CM and IM, there is a single type of agent facing no
idiosyncratic income risk ( e = 1), and no borrowing or saving constraints ( a = −∞ and a = ∞).
The problem in (A.21) therefore reduces to:
Vt (Ap) = max
C,A′
u (C) − v (Nt) + βVt+1
 
(1 + rt) A′
s.t. C + A′ = Ap + Wt
Pt
Nt (A.34)
Given initial Ap
0, the solution implies the Euler equation (25) for t ≥ 0, the budget constraint
(26) for t ≥ 1, and the initial budget constraint:
C0 + A0 = Ap
0 + W0
P0
N0 (A.35)
Starting from (A.35), iterating on the flow budget constraints (26), and using the no-Ponzi condi-
A-11

===== PAGE 63 =====
tion limt→∞ ∏s≤t (1 + rs)−1 At = 0, we obtain the country’s present value budget constraint,
∑
s≥0
qsCs = Ap
0 + ∑
s≥0
qs
Ws
Ps
Ns (A.36)
where qs ≡ Πs−1
u=0
1
1+ru
is the price of date-s consumption in units of date-0 consumption. Moreover,
the Euler equation (25) implies that for all t ≥ 0,
Ct = (qt)− 1
σ β
t
σ C0 (A.37)
Equation (A.11) implies that Wt
Pt
Nt = 1
µ pH(Qt)Yt, where pH(·) is the relationship defined in
(A.7). Using this relation, we solve (A.36) and (A.37) to obtain C0 as a function of Ap
0 and the time
paths of {qt} and {pH(Qt)Yt}:
C0
 
Ap
0

= 1
∑s≥0 (qs)
σ−1
σ β
s
σ
 
Ap
0 + 1
µ ∑
s≥0
qspH(Qs)Ys
!
(A.38)
Finally, we have from equation (8) that Ap
0 relates to the initial portfolio (s, BH, BF) via
Ap
0 = (p0 + d0) s + (1 + ι−1) 1
P0
BH + (1 + ι∗
−1) E0
P0
BF (A.39)
where ι−1 = ι−1 = rss, E0/P0 = Q0, and the real stock price p0 + d0 is given, iterating on the asset
pricing condition (7) and using equation (A.12), by
p0 + d0 = ∑
s≥0
qs

1 − 1
µ

pH(Qs)Ys (A.40)
Given {rt, Bt}, which determine {qt} and {Qt} via (A.14), and an initial portolio (s, BH, BF),
a RA equilibrium is a sequence {Ct, Yt} that satisfies the Euler equation (25), the goods market
clearing condition (A.9), as well as (A.38), (A.39) and (A.40).
Note that in a steady state, the RA Euler equation (25) implies β(1 + rss) = 1, and equation
(A.13) implies that β∗(1 + rss) = 1, so in particular we have β = β∗. Combining equation (A.13)
with the Euler equation (25) and using β = β∗, we find that for all t ≥ 0,
Qt+1
Bt+1
C−σ
t+1 = Qt
Bt
C−σ
t (A.41)
Hence, in both RA-IM and RA-CM, the dynamics of consumption are similar. The key difference
between these two cases is the way in which the initial level of consumption C0 is determined.
Complete markets (RA-CM). With complete markets, the level of initial consumption C0 is
pinned down by the Backus-Smith condition, and the level of Ap
0 is endogenously determined to
make sure that (A.38) holds given this C0.
More specifically, the Backus-Smith condition (24) implies that the initial level of consumption
is
Q0
B0
C−σ
0 = C−σ
ss (A.42)
A-12

===== PAGE 64 =====
Combining (A.42) with (A.41) implies that, for all t ≥ 0,
Qt
Bt
C−σ
t = C−σ
ss (A.43)
which is equation (27) in the main text. Given Ct and Qt, the goods market clearing condition
(A.9) implies the level of Yt. All the elements of of (A.38) are known except for Ap
0. This allows to
solve for the endogenous level of Ap
0. Finally, we can solve for asset prices p0 + d0, P0, and E0, and
find a portfolio (s, BH, BF) that ensures that equation (A.39) is satisfied with this Ap
0.
Note in particular that (A.42) holds in the steady state, which ensures that the long-run level
of consumption is the steady state level, C∞ = Css. In the notation of section A.3, there is a simple
Css function giving the long-run level of consumption as a function of Q,
C = Css (r, Q, Y) = Q1/σCss
Hence, the model is stationary, so there is a unique steady state with Q = 1, and this is the initial
steady state.
Incomplete markets (RA-IM). With incomplete markets, the exogenous initial portfolio pins
down Ap
0, which implies the initial level of consumption C0 via (A.38).
More specifically, since all wealth is invested in domestic equity, the initial portfolio is s = 1.
Equations (A.36), (A.39) and (A.40) imply that
∑
s≥0
qsCs = ∑
s≥0
qspH(Qs)Ys (A.44)
which is the country’s intertemporal budget constraint under incomplete markets. Equations
(A.38), (A.39) and (A.40) with s = 1 imply that
C0 = 1
∑s≥0 (qs)
σ−1
σ β
s
σ
 
∑
s≥0
qspH(Qs)Ys
!
(A.45)
and from (A.41) we obtain the level of consumption Ct at all t.
Equation (A.45) and (A.41) determine the entire path of Ct given {rt, Bt, Qt, Yt}. An RA-IM
equilibrium is a sequence {Yt} such that market clearing (A.9) holds at all t.
Note that here, applying (A.41), the long-run level of consumption C∞ is equal to C0 in (A.45),
and hence depends on the entire sequence of shocks. This reflects the non-stationarity of the
model. There is still a unique equilibrium with Q = 1, but in contrast to the RA-CM model, in
general the long level of (Y, C, nfa) differs from the initial steady state.
M matrices. We now derive the M matrices for RA-CM and RA-IM.
Note first that, since M = ∂Ct
∂Ys
holds rt = rss constant, we can replace qs =
  1
1+r
s
= βs in the
equations above. Equation (30) also implies that we have Qt = Bt.
In the RA-CM model, equation (A.43) therefore implies that we have Ct = Css for all t ≥ 0. In
particular, this implies ∂Ct
∂Ys
= 0 for all s and t. Hence, we have MRA-CM = 0.
In the RA-IM model, using qt = βt and Qt = Bt into equations (A.41) and (A.45), we have
Ct = (1 − β) ∑
s≥0
βs PHs
Ps
Ys
A-13

===== PAGE 65 =====
hence, the matrix Mts ≡ ∂Ct
∂
 PHs
Ps Ys
 is given by:
MRA-IM =


1 − β (1 − β) β (1 − β) β2 · · ·
1 − β (1 − β) β (1 − β) β2 · · ·
1 − β (1 − β) β (1 − β) β2 · · ·
... ... ... ...

 = (1 − β) · 1q′ = 1q′
q′1 (A.46)
Equivalence of the RA-CM model with Gali-Monacelli. Here, we log-linearize the equi-
librium conditions of the RA-CM model in the spirit of Galí and Monacelli (2005). Denote bt ≡
d log Bt
Bss
, ct ≡ d log Ct
Css
, qt ≡ d log Qt
Qss
, et ≡ d log Et
Ess
and so on, for log deviations of aggregate
variables from their steady state. The equation for the price index (4) log-linearizes as
pt = αpFt + (1 − α) pHt
so, using that pFt = et and qt = et − pt, we obtain
pHt − pt = − α
1 − α qt (A.47)
in particular, the difference between PPI inflation πHt = pHt − pHt−1 and CPI inflation πt =
pt − pt−1 is given by
πHt − πt = − α
1 − α ∆qt (A.48)
where ∆qt = qt − qt−1. Log-linearizing the demand equation (33), we have
yt = (1 − α)

η α
1 − α qt + ct

+ αγ 1
1 − α qt
and using (A.47), together with the definition of χ in (36), we find that output is
yt = α
1 − α

(1 − α) η + γ| {z }
χ

 qt + (1 − α) ct (A.49)
Log-linearizing the Euler equation (25), we obtain
ct = ct+1 − 1
σ (ιt − πt+1 − ρ) (A.50)
where ρ = − log β, while the log-linearized Backus-Smith condition (27) reads
ct = 1
σ (qt − bt) (A.51)
Finally, to derive the Phillips curve, combine equations (18) and (14) to obtain that πHt = πwt,
with
πHt = κw
 
v′ (Nt)
Z
µµ w
PHt
Pt
u′ (Ct)
− 1
!
+ βπHt+1
A-14

===== PAGE 66 =====
Log-linearizing around the steady state with zero inflation so that Z
µµ w
PH
P
u′(C)
v′(N) = 1, this results in
πHt = κw (φnt + σct − (pHt − pt)) + βπt+1
Combining this equation with production (13),
yt = nt
and the expression for the relative price of home goods in (A.47), we obtain
πHt = κw

φyt + σct + α
1 − α qt

+ βπHt+1 (A.52)
This is exactly equations (32) and (33) in Gali-Monacelli (since we do not consider productivity or
foreign spending shocks, and the terms of trade in their notation isst = et − pHt = qt + pt − pHt =
qt + α
1−α qt = 1
1−α qt). In particular there was no loss of generality in considering sticky wages rather
than sticky prices. The equivalence between the slopes of the Phillips curves obtains provided that
we set
κw = (1 − βθ) (1 − θ)
θ (A.53)
where θ is the Calvo probability of keeping a domestic price fixed in Gali-Monacelli.
Equations (A.48), (A.49), (A.50), (A.51), and (A.52), characterize the log-linear model, deliver-
ing πt, πHt, yt, ct, qt as a function of the foreign preference shock bt for a given monetary policy
rule for ιt.
Reduced-form two-equation system. To see the connection with the equations derived in
Galí and Monacelli (2005), observe that we can use the Backus-Smith condition (A.51) and the
market clearing condition (A.49) to solve for ct and qt as a function of yt and the exogenous vari-
able bt. This gives us  1 − 1
σ
1 − α α
1−α χ
 ct
qt

=

− 1
σ bt
yt

which can be inverted to read
 ct
qt

= (1 − α) σα
 − α
1−α
χ
σ bt + 1
σ yt
1−α
σ bt + yt

where we have defined, as in in Gali-Monacelli,
σα ≡ σ
1 − α + αω with ω ≡ σχ − (1 − α)
This implies that
σct + α
1 − α qt = σα

yt − α
σ ωbt

(A.54)
Since substituting (A.48) into the Euler equation (A.50) implies
σ∆ct+1 + α
1 − α ∆qt+1 = (ιt − πHt+1 − ρ)
A-15

===== PAGE 67 =====
we have, using (A.54), that
σα∆yt+1 = ιt − πHt+1 − ρ + α σα
σ ω∆bt+1 (A.55)
Next, substituting (A.54) into (A.52), the Phillips curve is
πHt = κw

(φ + σα) yt − α σα
σ ωbt

+ βπHt+1
Under flexible wages, output solves
(φ + σα) yn
t = α σα
σ ωbt (A.56)
hence, the Phillips curve is
πHt = κw (φ + σα) (yt − yn
t ) + βπHt+1 (A.57)
which is exactly equation (36) in Galí and Monacelli (2005) augmented to include foreign discount
factor shocks, which affect the natural output levelyn
t according to (A.56). Finally, equation (A.55)
implies that, defining the natural real interest rate as
rn
t ≡ ρ + σα∆yn
t+1 − α σα
σ ω∆bt+1 (A.58)
the Euler equation reads
∆yt+1 = σ−1
α (ιt − πHt+1 − rn
t ) (A.59)
which is the counterpart of equation (37) in Galí and Monacelli (2005), where the natural PPI-based
real rate of interest is affected by foreign discount factor shocks per equation (A.56).
A.7 Two-agent model
In the two-agent model, there is a fixed fractionλµ of "hand-to-mouth" agents who are constrained
to have zero total assets, Ptsc
t + BH,c
t + BF,c
t = 0 (as will be clear, we make this assumption so that
a fraction λ of income goes to the hand-to-mouth agents in the steady state). The other agents are
permanent income agents solving the Bellman equation (A.34). In the general notation of equation
(A.20), constrained agents have ac = 0, ac = 0 and unconstrained agents have au = −∞, au = ∞.
As in our baseline setup of section 2, union labor demand imposes that constrained and un-
constrained work an equal amount of hours. Thus,
Nu
t = Nc
t = Nt
For unconstrained agents, consumption cu
t is determined just like in section A.6. In particular,
in the TA-CM model, unconstrained agent consumption is given by the equivalent of equation
(A.43) at all t ≥ 0,
(cu
t )−σ = (cu
ss)−σ Bt
Qt
(A.60)
In the TA-IM model, we assume BH,u = BF,u = 0. cu
0 is then obtained by combining equations
(A.38) and (A.39) with the initial stock positionsu = 1
1−λµ that ensures stock market clearing. This
A-16

===== PAGE 68 =====
implies that:
cu
0 = 1
∑s≥0 (qs)
σ−1
σ β
s
σ
 1 − 1
µ
1 − λµ + 1
µ
! 
∑
s≥0
qs
PHs
Ps
Ys
!
(A.61)
and then cu
t at all t follows from the recursion Qt+1
Bt+1
 
cu
t+1
−σ = Qt
Bt
(cu
t )−σ.
For constrained agents, the constraint that net wealth has to be zero imposes Ap,c
t = Ac
t = 0
for all t ≥ 1, so that the budget constraint implies
cc
t = Wt
Pt
Nt = 1
µ
PHt
Pt
Yt (A.62)
Moreover, at date 0, we have
cc
0 = Ap,c
0 + W0
P0
N0
In the TA-IM model, we exogenously assume the initial portfolio BH,c = BF,c = 0, so the no-
wealth constraint also imposes sc = 0. Hence, Ap
0 = 0, and equation (A.62) holds for all t ≥ 0. In
the TA-CM model, by contrast, we let constrained agents choose their portfolio in the steady state
to hedge aggregate shocks. Hence, their consumption at date 0 is pinned down by the Backus-
Smith condition,
(cc
0)−σ = (cc
ss)−σ B0
Q0
(A.63)
while, for t ≥ 1, it is given by equation (A.62). This makes period 0 special in the TA-CM model.
In all cases, aggregate consumption is given by
Ct = (1 − λµ ) cu
t + λµ · cc
t
In the steady state, we have β = β∗, as in the RA model, as well as
cc
ss = 1
µ
PH,ss
Pss
Yss = 1
µ
cu
ss =
 1 − 1
µ
1 − λµ + 1
µ
!
PH,ss
Pss
Yss = 1 − λ
1 − λµ
M matrices. Since M holds rt = rss constant, as in the RA model, we have qt = βt and Qt = Bt.
In the TA-CM model, equations (A.60) and (A.63) therefore imply cu
t = cu
ss and cc
0 = cc
ss. More-
over, equation (A.62) determines cc
t for t ≥ 1. Aggregation then implies that Mt,s = ∂Ct
∂Ys
= λµ
µ = λ
for t ≥ 1. Hence, we have the following iMPC matrix for the TA-CM model:
MTA-CM = λ


0 0 0 · · ·
0 1 0 · · ·
0 0 1 · · ·
... ... ... ...

 (A.64)
A-17

===== PAGE 69 =====
In the TA-IM model, using qt = βt and Qt = Bt into equation (A.61) gives
cu
t = 1 − λ
1 − λµ (1 − β) ∑
s≥0
βs PHs
Ps
Ys
Meanwhile, equation (A.62) determines cc
t at all dates. Aggregating, we therefore obtain
MTA-IM
t,s = (1 − λ)(1 − β) ∑
s≥0
βs + λ1t=s
Note that this implies that the M matrix of the TA-IM model can just be written as the convex
combination of the RA-IM M matrix and the identity matrix,
MTA-CM = (1 − λ)MRA-IM + λI = (1 − λ) 1q′
q′1 + λI (A.65)
A.8 Heterogeneous-agent model
Here, we describe how we solve for the M matrices of the HA-IM and the HA-CM model, ie the
Jacobian of the consumption function with respect to real income. Recall that, the M matrix holds
rt = rss fixed, which implies in particular Qt = Bt at all t ≥ 0.
HA-IM model. In the IM model, given our baseline assumption that initial portfolios are 100%
in domestic equity, equation (8) implies that
ap
0 = P0 + D0
P0
s (A.66)
Given (9), aggregate consumption at each date t is only a function of the sequence
n
Ws
Ps
Ns
o
of
aggregate labor income and the initial distribution of ap
0. The latter, in turn, is solely influenced
by P0+D0
P0
due to (A.66). Hence, we obtain a function eCt expressing aggregate consumption at t in
terms of these two aggregate variables alone:
eCt
 Ws
Ps
Ns

, P0 + D0
P0

Let Mlabor
t,s ≡ ∂eCt
∂( Ws
Ps Ns) denote the Jacobian of consumption to labor income, and mcap
t ≡ ∂eCt
∂
 P0+D0
P0

the vector of consumption responses to capital gains. These are the standard definitions of in-
tertemporal marginal propensities to consume, as introduced in Auclert et al. (2024a), and can be
calculated using the standard sequence-space algorithm described in Auclert et al. (2021). Now
note that we have Ws
Ps
Ns = 1
µ
PHs
Ps
Ys for all s, and that equation (A.33) gives P0+D0
P0
as 1 − 1
µ times the
present discounted value q′ PH
P Y of real income. Hence, applying the chain rule, the Jacobian of
the consumption function Ct = Ct
n
PHs
Ps
Ys
o
with respect to income is given by:
MHA-IM = 1
µ Mlabor +

1 − 1
µ

mcap q′ (A.67)
A-18

===== PAGE 70 =====
HA-CM model. For the HA-CM, the procedure to obtain the Jacobian follows that described in
Auclert et al. (2024b), in the special case with an exogenous stochastic discount factor due to our
open economy assumption. We start from the Backus-Smith condition (24), substituting B0 = Q0,
and obtain:
E[u′(c0(ap
0, e′))|e]
E[u′(css(ap
ss, e′))|e] = 1 (A.68)
Consider a marginal shock to real income, which changes the policy bydc0
 
ap
ss, e′
. Let da p
0 (ap, e)
be the adjustment in the incoming asset position of an agent that, in the steady state, choses asset
position ap in income state e (we suppress the ss subscript for ease of notation.) Differentiating
(A.68), we have:
E

u′′ 
c
 
ap, e′ 
dc0
 
ap, e′
+ MPC
 
ap, e′
da p
0 (ap, e)

|e

= 0
Solving this equation for da p
0 (ap, e), we obtain:
da p
0 (ap, e) = − E [u′′ (c (ap, e′)) dc0 (ap, e′) |e]
E [u′′ (c (ap, e′)) MPC (ap, e′) |e] (A.69)
Next, we the calculate the aggregate effect of this change in incoming asset position on aggregate
consumption at date t. To obtain this, let us define the expectation function for consumption t
periods ahead as
Et (ap, e) ≡ E

ct
 
ap
t , et

|
 
ap
0, e0

= (ap, e)

(A.70)
computed by assuming that agents follow their steady state policies. Note that (A.70) can be
calculated recursively using the law of iterated expectations (see eg Auclert et al. 2021 and Auclert,
Rigato, Rognlie and Straub 2024c). Next, define the date-t MPC for an agent in state (ap, e) as
MPCt (ap, e) ≡ ∂Et (ap, e)
∂ap
Then, the effect on aggregate consumption at t from the adjustment to asset positions induced by
the shock is given by:
Z
ap,e ∑
e′
Π
 
e′|e

MPCt
 
ap, e′
da p
0 (ap, e) dD (ap, e) (A.71)
where dD (ap, e) is the end-of-period distribution in the steady state.
The logic of equation (A.71) is as follows. Consider an agent in state e, choosing asset position
ap at the end of period −1. The shock will change that agent’s asset position byda p
0 (ap, e). The ef-
fect on aggregate consumption of this change is given byMPCt (ap, e) ≡ ∑e′ Π (e′|e) MPCt (ap, e′),
which is the date- t MPC for that agent. Integrating across all agents in the end-of-period distri-
bution gives (A.71). Note that the end of period distribution is related to the beginning of period
distribution via:
D
 
Ap′, e

= D

a−1
 Ap′
1 + r , e

, e

This is connected to, but different from, the beginning-of-period stationary distribution, which
satisfies the relationship in footnote 15.
A-19

===== PAGE 71 =====
Calculating the Jacobian. We can now calculate the Jacobian M of consumption with respect
to real income. First, we calculate the Jacobian of consumption to labor income. As in the incom-
plete markets case, there are two effects: the direct effect Mlabor , and the indirect effect through
the initial distribution of ap
0, which we callcM. Given W
P N = 1
µ
PH
P Y, the complete-market Jacobian
with respect to real income is then:
M = 1
µ Mlabor + 1
µ
cM (A.72)
To calculatecM, we proceed as follows. Consider a shock dx to labor income Ws
Ps
Ns at any date
s. First, we can calculate the effect dcs
0 (ap, e′) on the date-0 consumption policy function, and then
the implied da p,s
0 (ap, e) using equation (A.69). Evaluting (A.71) then gives the effect on aggregate
consumption at each date t.
In practice, we solve the model on a discretized grid of N states (ap, e). Let mpc denote the
N × T matrix where each column is the vector MPCt of date-t MPCs over all states. Let D be
a length-N vector representing the end-of-period distribution ¯D, giving the mass of households
in each discretized state. Finally, let αp be the N × T matrix with column s given by αs (ap, e) =
da p,s
0 (ap,e)
dx . Then, we can evaluate (A.71) on our discrete representation by taking the inner product52
cM ≡ mpc′diag
 
D

αp (A.73)
Combining (A.73) and (A.74) we finally obtain
MHA-CM = 1
µ Mlabor + 1
µ mpc′diag
 
D

αp (A.74)
Recovering portfolios. Let drs
0 = d
 P0+D0
P0
Pss
Pss

, drH
0 = d

1+ι0
P0/Pss

, and drF
0 = d
 (1+ι∗
0)E0
P0Ess/Pss

denote
the change in the returns to value of the stock and the return to home and foreign bond returns
induced by the shock. Then, for each household with incoming savings a′ = ωs + ωBH + ωBF,
equation (8) implies that the choice of amounts invested in shocks, home and foreign bonds
ωs, ωBH, ωBF must satisfy:
da p
0 = drs
0ωs + drH
0 ωBH + drF
0 ωBF (A.75)
where da p
0 is pinned down by (A.69). In general, this will have a continuum of solutions: because
there are three assets, households have two degrees of freedom in allocating their portfolio in
order to hedge against the single shock.
To get one solution, we fix ωs = a′. Then, we have ωBH = −ωBF, and (A.75) implies that the
amount invested in home bonds is
ωH = da p
0 − drs
0a′
drH
0 − drF
0
This allows us to solve for the portfolios of all agents.
52In practice, our code evaluates (A.73) by calculating the expectation function (A.70) at each horizon t,
and then taking the inner product of this with the perturbation to the one-period-ahead discretized dis-
tribution, starting from the steady state, implied by each αs (ap, e). This is equivalent to (A.73), since the
change in policy leads to a shift in mass between adjacent gridpoints of the discretized distribution, and
taking the inner product of this with the expectation function is tantamount to evaluating the derivative
MPCt of the expectation function using numerical differentiation.
A-20

===== PAGE 72 =====
A.9 Additional results and summary
A.9.1 Present-value result for IM models
We have the following important result for incomplete market models. Recall that we have de-
fined q′ =

1, 1
1+r , 1
(1+r)2 , . . .

as the row vector that, when applied to a sequence, gives its net
present value, i.e. PV(Y) = q′Y)
Proposition 11. For all incomplete market models, we have q′MIM = q′.
This is a consequence of budget constraints, which have to be respected under incomplete
markets. In the RA model, it follows from equation (A.46), since q′1q′
q′1 = q′. In the TA model, it
follows similarly from equation (A.65), since
q′

(1 − λ) 1q′
q′1 + λI

= (1 − λ)q′ + (1 − λ)q′ = q′
For the HA model, the proof is as follows. First, budget constraints imply that q′Mlabor = q′
and q′mcap = 1 (see e.g. Auclert et al. (2024a), propositions 1 and 8, for a proof). Then equation
(A.67) implies q′M = 1
µ q′ +

1 − 1
µ

q′ = q′.
Note that the proposition does not apply for CM models, since under complete markets agents
have insurance arrangements with the rest of the world with respect to aggregate income shocks.
For instance, in the RA-CM model we have M = 0 so also q′M = 0.
A.9.2 Summary: iMPCs in all models
Figure A.1 summarizes the results of the past three sections by displaying columns of theM matrix
in the six models we analyzed, complementing figure 1 which just display the first column. Recall
that we calibrate TA and HA so the income-weighted partial equilibrium impact MPC is XXX.
This corresponds to Mlabor
00 in (A.67) and (A.72). In TA-IM and HA-IM, this is the majority of M00,
which also depends on the response to capital gains. In TA-CM and HA-CMM00 is smaller due to
endogenous insurance transfers captured by bM00. However, the ability of agents to insure future
shocks in TA-CM and HA-CM is reduced: as equations (A.69) and (A.74) show, this is because
they only have insurance against initial consumption movements, which get smaller and smaller
for later shocks. This explains why, for these later shocks, the responses under CM and IM are
closer.
B Appendix to section 3
B.1 Proof of proposition 2
We first linearize the mappings (A.7) and (A.8) between the real exchange rate Q and relative
prices PH/P and PH/E around the steady state where Q = PH = PF = E = C = C∗ = Y = 1. This
gives:
d
 PHt
Pt

= − α
1 − α dQt d
 PHt
Et

= − 1
1 − α dQt (A.76)
in other words, we have p′
H (1) = − α
1−α and p∗′
H (1) = − 1
1−α.
A-21

===== PAGE 73 =====
Figure A.1: Intertemporal MPCs (columns of M) in our six calibrated models
0 5 10 15 20 25 30
0.00
0.02
0.04
0.06
0.08
0.10∂Ct/∂Ys
RA-CM
s=0
s=10
s=20
0 5 10 15 20 25 30
0.00
0.02
0.04
0.06
0.08
0.10
TA-CM
0 5 10 15 20 25 30
0.00
0.02
0.04
0.06
0.08
0.10
HA-CM
0 5 10 15 20 25 30
Quarters
0.00
0.02
0.04
0.06
0.08
0.10∂Ct/∂Ys
RA-IM
0 5 10 15 20 25 30
Quarters
0.00
0.02
0.04
0.06
0.08
0.10
TA-IM
0 5 10 15 20 25 30
Quarters
0.00
0.02
0.04
0.06
0.08
0.10
HA-IM
Note: This figure shows several columns of the M matrix in our six calibrated models.
We next linearize the goods market clearing condition (A.9) around the steady state. This gives
dYt = (1 − α) (−η)

− α
1 − α

dQt + (1 − α) dCt + α (−γ)

− 1
1 − α

dQt
= α
1 − α (η (1 − α) + γ) dQt + (1 − α) dCt
= α
1 − α χdQt + (1 − α) dCt (A.77)
where χ ≡ η(1 − α) + γ, as defined in (36).
Similarly, we linearize the equation for the trade balance in (A.10). Using (A.76), we obtain
dNX t = α

− α
1 − α dQt + γ
1 − α dQt

− α (1 − η) dQt − αdCt
Simplifying, we find
dNX t = α
1 − α (χ − 1) dQt − αdCt (A.78)
Finally, in the complete-market, representative-agent model, we know from the Backus-Smith
condition (27) combined with the exchange rate equation (32) that dCt = 0 at all t. Plugging this
in (A.77) delivers equation (34). Plugging this into (A.78) delivers dNX t = α
1−α (χ − 1) dQt, as
claimed in the text. Finally, the definition of net exports in (A.4) implies d( PHt
Pt
) = dNX t + dCt,
which with dCt = 0 implies d( PHt
Pt
) = dNX t–that is, the change in real income is also the change in
net exports.
A-22

===== PAGE 74 =====
B.2 Proof of proposition 3
In this section, we derive the “international Keynesian Cross” assuming a fixed real interest rate
policy. From proposition 1 , we know that aggregate domestic consumption Ct depends only on
the path of aggregate real income (the value of home production deflated by the domestic CPI)n
PHt
Pt
Yt
o
. We can thus write it as Ct = Ct
n
PHs
Ps
Ys
o
.
Let M denote the Jacobian of the aggregate consumption function Ct
n
PHs
Ps
Ys
o
with respect
to the path of real income PHs
Ps
Ys. Using equation (A.76), we can totally differentiate the equation
Ct = Ct
n
PHs
Ps
Ys
o
around the steady state with C = Y = PH = P = 1 to obtain
dC = − α
1 − α MdQ + MdY (A.79)
which is equation (37). The first term reflects the dependency of real income on the relative price
of home goods PHs
Ps
(which we call the “real income channel”), and the second term reflects the
dependency on the volume of output Ys (which we call the “multiplier channel”).
Next, we write equation (A.77), which is the linearized version of equation (A.9), in vector
form, and obtain:
dY = α
1 − α χdQ + (1 − α) dC (A.80)
Substituting dC from (37), we obtain the full international Keynesian cross (38).
Alternative derivation via the trade balance. Here we propose an instructive alternative
derivation of the international Keynesian cross via the trade balance. Writing equation (A.78) for
the trade balance in vector form, we have:
dNX = α
1 − α (χ − 1) dQ − αdC
reflecting the two ways in which the value of net imports can increase: via a change in rela-
tive prices dQ, leading to countervailing volume and price effects, or via a decline in domestic
spending dC, pushing down the volume of imports. On the other hand, linearizing the national
accounting identity (A.4) we have:
− α
1 − α dQ + dY = dNX + dC
which says that the sum of the value of net exports and consumption adds up to real income.
Combining these two equations, we again obtain (A.80).
B.3 Proof of propositions 4 and 5
The international Keynesian cross (38) can be rewritten as
(I − (1 − α)M)dY = α
1 − α χdQ − αMdQ
Our first step in solving the equation is therefore the inversion of the (infinite) matrix on the left
hand side of the equation. After that, we solve for dY and characterize the solution as stated in
A-23

===== PAGE 75 =====
proposition 3.
Characterizing the inverse (I − (1 − α)M)−1. We will work using the sequence norm∥x∥ ≡
∑∞
t=0(1 + r)−t|xt|, and let us consider the Banach space of sequences such that ∥x∥ is finite. (This
is like ℓ1, but with discounting in the norm, since r > 0.)
We first show this for incomplete market models, for which we have the identity∑(1 + r)s−tMts =
1, which states that the M matrix preserves present value. We can then write
∥Mx∥ =
∞
∑
t=0
(1 + r)−t|(Mx)t| =
∞
∑
t=0
(1 + r)−t

∞
∑
s=0
Mxs

≤
∞
∑
t=0
(1 + r)−t
∞
∑
s=0
Mts|xs| =
∞
∑
s=0
(1 + r)−s|xs|
∞
∑
t=0
(1 + r)s−tMts
=
∞
∑
s=0
(1 + r)−s|xs| = ∥x∥ (A.81)
Note that our assumption M ≥ 0 is required here in the inequality step so that |Mts| = Mts, and
the identity ∑(1 + r)s−tMts = 1 is applied in the last line.
Since ∥Mx∥ ≤ ∥ x∥, we have ∥M∥ ≤ 1, where ∥M∥ is the induced operator norm. Indeed,
if α > 0, we have the strict inequality ∥(1 − α)M∥ < 1. It then immediately follows 53 that the
inverse (I − (1 − α)M)−1 is uniquely defined as the Neumann series
(I − (1 − α)M)−1 = I + (1 − α)M + (1 − α)2M2 + · · · (A.82)
This provides both a constructive way to compute the inverse and, combined with our assumption
that M ≥ 0, implies that the inverse is has all nonnegative matrices: (I − (1 − α)M)−1 ≥ 0.54
Using proposition 12 below, the extension to complete-market models is immediate, since then
we have ∑(1 + r)s−tMts ≤ 1, and the same proof goes through with an inequality in the last line
of (A.81).
Explosive paths. We have characterized a unique solution in the space given by our norm
∥x∥ ≡ ∑∞
t=0(1 + r)−t|xt| (which includes all non-explosive solutions), but it is theoretically pos-
sible that the path of {dYt} in this solution will be explosive. If so, there is no non-explosive
solution.
For instance, suppose that M = ( 1 + r)L, where L is the lag operator, so that if households
receive income in period t, they consume exactly that income plus interest in period t + 1. Then
if (1 + r)(1 − α) ≥ 1, I + (1 − α)M + (1 − α)2M2 + . . . has unbounded entries: each column has
entries, starting at the main diagonal, of (1, (1 + r)(1 − α), (1 + r)2(1 − α)2, . . .). (Note that this
particular example would require either a very low openness α or a very high rate r.) This will
generally imply an explosive path for the resulting dY.
53This is a standard result: for instance, the Wikipedia article for Neumann series states that for any
bounded linear operator T on a normed vector space, if the operator norm ∥T∥ < 1, then (I − T)−1 =
I + T + T2 + · · · . The terms in this sequence shrink at least geometrically in norm, since ∥Tk∥ ≤ ∥ T∥k.
54Note also that we can get (A.82), although not nonnegativity, under the weaker assumption thatMk ≥ 0
for some k, since then the argument for (A.81) implies that ∥Mk∥ ≤ 1, and we continue to get a geometric
bound on the terms of the Neumann series (A.82).
A-24

===== PAGE 76 =====
A simple condition guarantees the existence of a non-explosive solution. Assume that
sup
s
∑
t
|Mts| < 1
1 − α (A.83)
i.e. that the sum of entries in any column of M is bounded below 1
1−α. This is equivalent to
assuming that the norm ∥M∥ℓ1 of M, interpreted as an operator on ℓ1, is below 1
1−α. Then it is
immediate that ∥(1 − α)M∥ℓ1 < 1, and hence that the Neumann series (A.82) converges and gives
a well-defined inverse in ℓ1, so that (assuming a summable series of shocks) the resulting dY is in
ℓ1 and hence non-explosive. (Note that if (A.83) is satisfied, the assumptionM ≥ 0 is unnecessary.)
Proofs of proposition 5. Starting from the international Keynesian cross (38),
dY = α
1 − α χdQ − αMdQ + (1 − α)MdY
we see that for χ = 1, we can guess and verify the solution dY = α
1−α dQ: substituting this into
the third term on the right above, the second and third terms on the right cancel out, leaving only
dY = α
1−α dQ. This is proposition 5.
Proof of proposition 4. With the discussion above, we can solve (B.3) by inverting I − (1 −
α)M. We find the unique solution
dY = (I − (1 − α)M)−1
 α
1 − α χdQ − αMdQ

(A.84)
For the χ = 1 case this can be written as α
1−α dQ = ( I − (1 − α)M)−1  α
1−α dQ − αMdQ

. Subtract-
ing this special case from the general case gives
dY − α
1 − α dQ = (I − (1 − α)M)−1(χ − 1) α
1 − α dQ
which, when rearranged (and expanding (I − (1 − α)M)−1 in series form), is the desired result
(40).
B.4 Additional solution insights
In this section we derive several additional insights about the solution to the international Key-
nesian cross in some of the models introduced in section 2.2. We focus mostly on the explicit
solutions in the RA-IM, TA-IM, TA-CM models, though we also show additional results regarding
the portfolios in the HA-CM model.
B.4.1 The RA-IM model
As shown in appendix A.6, the iMPC matrix of the RA-IM model is given by equation (A.46)
M = 1q′
q′1
A-25

===== PAGE 77 =====
where q is the vector of discount factors, q =

1, (1 + r)−1 , (1 + r)−2 , . . .
′
. Observe that M is
idempotent, that is,
Mk = M for any k > 0
Using this property in the solution to the international Keynesian cross, (40), we find
dY = χ α
1 − α dQ + α
1 − α (χ − 1) ∑
k≥1
(1 − α)k MdQ
which simplifies to
dY = χ α
1 − α dQ + (χ − 1) MdQ
and further to
dYt = χ α
1 − α dQt + (χ − 1) · r
1 + r · ∑
s≥0
1
(1 + r)s dQs (A.85)
The second term in the RA solution (A.85) is a constant. This constant is zero in the RA-CM
solution. The constant is negative precisely when χ < 1 and the exchange rate depreciates, dQs >
0. It captures the influence of the real income effect wearing down on consumption. Since the
RA-IM model has very low intertemporal MPCs, however, the whole term scales with r
1+r and is
typically very small.
In practice, the modest role played by the real income effect will also make it hard for the RA
model to predict a recession. To illustrate this, assume that dQt is decreasing towards zero, with
AR(1) persistence ρ ∈ (0, 1). Then, the entire output response dYt is negative whenever
χ < (1 − α) 1
1 + αβ 1−ρ
1−β
≡ χ∗
This is a special case of proposition 8. The threshold χ∗ lies below 1 − α, potentially by a lot given
that standard quarterly calibrations for ρ are in the neighborhood of 0.85, while calibrations for β
are in the neighborhood of 0.99. For our baseline calibration,
χ∗ ≈ 0.14 · (1 − α) = 0.057
This implies that contractionary depreciations are much less likely to be obtained in a RA-IM
model than in a HA model.
B.4.2 The TA-IM model
As shown in appendix A.7, equation (A.65), the iMPC matrix of the TA-IM model is simply a
convex combination of an identity matrix with the iMPC matrix of the RA-IM model,
M = λI + (1 − λ) 1q′
q′1
Different from RA-IM, this iMPC matrix is no longer idempotent. Instead,
M2 =

λI + (1 − λ) 1q′
q′1

λI + (1 − λ) 1q′
q′1

= λ2I +
 
1 − λ2 1q′
q′1
A-26

===== PAGE 78 =====
and more generally
Mk = λkI +

1 − λk
 1q′
q′1 for any k > 0
Using this property in the solution to the international Keynesian cross, (40), we find
dY = χ α
1 − α dQ + α
1 − α (χ − 1) ∑
k≥1
(1 − α)k

λkI +

1 − λk
 1q′
q′1

dQ
which simplifies to
dYt = χ α
1 − α dQt + (χ − 1) · r
1 + r · ∑
s≥0
1
(1 + r)s dQs
| {z }
=dYRA-IM
t
+ (χ − 1) λα
1 − λ (1 − α)
 
dQt − r
1 + r · ∑
s≥0
1
(1 + r)s dQs
!
(A.86)
Here, the first two terms are exactly the RA-IM solution. The new third term scales with λ, the
share of hand-to-mouth households in the TA-IM model. It captures that these households cut
their spending in response to any loss in real income with an MPC of one. However, only contem-
poraneous income matters for their spending, so only dQt enters. The denominator 1 − λ (1 − α)
captures the Keynesian cross that is active as the hand-to-mouth households spend less and lower
everyone’s real income further.
B.4.3 The TA-CM model
As shown in appendix A.7, the iMPC matrix of the TA-CM model is a diagonal matrix, with first
entry equal to 0, followed by λ’s,
M =


0 0 0 · · ·
0 λ 0 · · ·
0 0 λ · · ·
... ... ... ...


This matrix has the property that
Mk = λk−1M
so that the solution to the Keynesian cross (40) simplifies to
dY = χ α
1 − α dQ + (χ − 1) α
1 − λ (1 − α) MdQ
which can be written as
dYt =
(
χ α
1−α dQ0 if t = 0
χ α
1−α dQt + (χ − 1) λα
1−λ(1−α) dQt if t > 0
In the first period, the TA-CM output response is exactly identical to the RA-CM response. This
is because the hand-to-mouth agents are able to insure their exposure to the exchange rate shock
in period 0 (see appendix A.7). Thereafter, an additional term emerges that is similar to the third
term in (A.86), capturing how output dYt is lower if χ < 1 as hand-to-mouth households spend
A-27

===== PAGE 79 =====
Figure A.2: Complete-market portfolios in the HA-CM model
0.0 2.5 5.0 7.5 10.0 12.5 15.0
Assets a
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
1.2
1.4
1.6Percent of annual labor income
Transfer received after shock
0.0 2.5 5.0 7.5 10.0 12.5 15.0
Assets a
−400
−300
−200
−100
0
100
200
300
400
Percent of net assets
Portfolio: 100% in equity
BH
BF
s
0.0 2.5 5.0 7.5 10.0 12.5 15.0
Assets a
−400
−300
−200
−100
0
100
200
300
400
Portfolio: no foreign investment
Note: The left panel shows the transfers HA households receive in the complete markets allocation after
the shock in figure 2. The middle and right panels show two distinct sets of portfolios that can implement
these transfers with domestic equity and bonds, and foreign-currency bonds.
less in response to a contemporaneous exchange rate depreciationdQt > 0. In fact, we can rewrite
this response, for t ≥ 1, as
dYt = χα(1 − λ (1 − α)) + (χ − 1)λα
(1 − α)(1 − λ (1 − α)) dQt = α
1 − α
χ − (1 − α) λ
1 − (1 − α) λ dQt
which is equation (42) in the main text. Note that real income is
d
 PHt
Pt
Yt

= − α
1 − α dQt + dYt = α
1 − α
χ − 1
1 − (1 − α) λ dQt
which is equation (41). (In the alternative TA-CM model where hand to mouth agents cannot hold
any gross position in any asset at any date, these expressions also apply at t = 0)
B.4.4 Sustaining portfolios in HA-CM.
Figure A.2 visualizes two sets of portfolios that sustain the complete-market allocation in the HA-
CM model, backed out using the procedure described in section A.8. With three assets and a
single kind of shock (the exchange rate shock), many portfolios can sustain the complete markets
allocation. The left panel of figure A.2 shows the transfer households receive after an exchange
rate depreciation for in complete markets allocation.
The middle panel shows how these transfers can be sustained via a portfolio that assumes
all agents hold a 100% position in the domestic equity market. To generate positive transfers,
households, in addition, hold a positive position in foreign currency debt, and a negative one in
domestic currency debt. These positions need to be large as share of net worth if net worth is low.
Similarly, the right panel shows how the complete-markets transfers can be sustained with a
zero position in foreign-currency debt, by levering up investments in equities, as those appreciate
relative to domestic-currency debt in response to a depreciation.
A-28

===== PAGE 80 =====
B.5 Proof of proposition 6
The proof follows immediately by taking the difference of the solution (40) under M andfM:
dY − deY = α
1 − α (χ − 1) ∑
k≥0
(1 − α)k(Mk −fMk)dQ (A.87)
Since we assume that both M and fM are nonnegative, M ≥ fM implies that Mk ≥ fMk, and
therefore for dQ ≥ 0, the sum in (A.87) is nonnegative. It follows that the right side of (A.87) is
nonnegative, so that dY ≥ deY, when χ > 1, and nonpositive, so that dY ≤ deY, when χ < 1.
B.6 Effect of complete markets on output response to depreciation
In this section we show that, when χ < 1, a depreciation under complete markets is always less
contractionary than under incomplete markets. This follows from an application of proposition 6
to the following result.
Proposition 12. Regardless of heterogeneity (RA, TA, HA), complete markets always reduces the entries
of the M matrix: MCM ≤ MIM . This implies that when χ < 1, the output response under incomplete
markets lies below that with complete markets, dYIM ≤ dYCM.
We prove the proposition with a series of auxiliary results. Our main proof strategy is to
show that the complete-market correction term cM in (A.74) is weakly negative, cM ≤ 0, in the
HA economy. We treat the RA and TA models below. Once this is established, it will follow that
MCM ≤ MIM . The ordering of the output responses is then a direct consequence of proposition 6 .
Proof thatcM ≤ 0. Our first lemma characterizes the steady state value function in the heterogeneous-
agent economy.
Lemma 1. The steady-state value function V(ap, e) in (9) in is strictly concave in ap.
Proof. This is standard and follows from the strict concavity of flow utility and the convexity of the
constraints. In particular, the solution to problem (8), starting from some initial state (ap, e0), can
be written in the form of a sequence of state-contingent policies a′(ap, et) and c(ap, et), which are
functions of the sequence et = ( e0, . . . ,et) of endowment realizations so far. We have V(ap, e0) =
E

∑∞
t=0 βtu(c(ap, et))

. For any convex combination ζap
0 + (1 − ζ)ap
1 of some ap
0 and ap
1, one feasible
plan starting at ζap
0 + (1 − ζ)ap
1 is to do the corresponding convex combination ζa′(ap
0, et) + (1 −
ζ)a′(ap
1, et) and ζc(ap
1, et) + (1 − ζ)c(ap
1, et) of all state-contingent policies. This plan puts a lower
bound on the value function, so we have
V(ζap
0 + (1 − ζ)ap
1, e0) ≥ E
"
∞
∑
t=0
βtu(ζc(ap
0, et) + (1 − ζ)c(ap
1, et))
#
> E
"
∞
∑
t=0
βt 
ζu(c(ap
0, et)) + (1 − ζ)u(c(ap
1, et))

#
= ζV(ap
0, e0) + (1 − ζ)V(ap
1, e0)
Lemma 2. MPC (ap, e) ≡ ∂c(ap, e)/∂ap satisfies 0 < MPC (ap, e) ≤ 1.
A-29

===== PAGE 81 =====
Proof. Note that from (9), if we define the continuation value W(a′, e) ≡ βEt[V((1 + r)a′, e′)|e],
then the non-constant part of the steady-state optimization problem reduces to
V(ap, e) = max
c,a′
u(c) + W(a′, e)
s.t. c + a′ = ap + eW
P N (≡ y(ap, e))
a′ ≥ 0
If a′ ≥ 0 does not bind, the first-order condition is u′(c) = W′(a′, e). Dropping the constant e for
economy of notation, and considering an increase dy = da p in incoming resources, we have
u′′(c)dc = W′′(a′)da′
dc + da′ = dy
and it immediately follows that MPC ≡ dc/dy =
1
u′′ (c)
1
u′′ (c) + 1
W′′ (a′ )
. We know that u′′ < 0, and W′′ < 0
follows from strict concavity V′′ < 0 proved in the previous lemma. In this case 0 < MPC < 1.
In the alternative case where the borrowing constraint does bind and a′ = 0 locally, then we
have MPC = 1.
Lemma 3. MPCt(ap, e) ≥ 0.
Proof. Recall that MPCt(ap, e) = ∂Et(ap,e)
∂ap , and note that we can recursively write (for t > 0)
Et(ap, e) = E[Et−1((1 + r)a′(ap, e), e′)|e]
Differentiating both sides, we have
MPCt(ap, e) = ( 1 + r) · MPS(ap, e) · E[MPCt−1((1 + r)a′(ap, e), e′)|e] (A.88)
where MPS(ap, e) ≡ ∂a′(ap,e)
∂ap = 1 − MPC (ap, e) must be nonnegative by the previous lemma.
Through induction on (A.88), starting from the base case MPC0(ap, e) = MPC (ap, e) > 0, the
result follows.
Lemma 4. Suppose there is a shock dx to labor income at date s. The response αs(ap, e) ≡ da p
0 (ap, e)/dx
is nonpositive, and strictly negative when s = 0.
Proof. Applying the envelope theorem to (9) in period s, we have V′
s (ap, e) = u′(cs(ap, e)), and
then if there is a shock e · d Ws
Ps
Ns = dx to labor income at date s, the effect on the marginal value
function is
dV ′
s (ap, e) = u′′(c(ap, e)) · MPC (ap, e) · dx < 0
Then, in previous periods t < s, the envelope theorem implies that dVt(ap, e) = βE[dVt+1((1 +
r)a′, e′)|e], and differentiating with respect to ap, we get
dV ′
t (ap, e) = β(1 + r) · MPS(ap, e) · E[dV ′
t+1((1 + r)a′, e′)|e] (A.89)
which is the same recursion as (A.88), except with an additional β. Through induction on (A.89),
starting from the base case dV ′
s (ap, e) < 0, we have dV ′
0(ap, e) ≤ 0 (with strict negativity if s = 0),
A-30

===== PAGE 82 =====
which implies that dc0(ap, e) ≥ 0 via the envelope condition. It then follows from equation (A.69)
that da p,s
0 (ap, e) < 0.
Proposition 13. The complete-market correction termcM in (A.74) satisfiescM ≤ 0, and also bM0,0 < 0.
Proof. Given a shock to labor income in period s, the bMt,s is obtained by evaluating (A.71) given
the da p
0 induced by the shock. Lemma 4 shows that da p
0 ≤ 0, while lemma 3 shows that MPCt ≥ 0.
Since the other factors in (A.71) are clearly nonnegative, (A.71) must be nonpositive. Fort = s = 0,
we have da p
0 < 0 and MPC0 = MPC > 0 by the same lemmas, so (A.71) is strictly negative.
Proof of proposition 12. The result is clearly true for RA, comparing equation (A.46) for IM to
M = 0 for CM. For TA, comparing (A.65) for IM to (A.64) for CM, we have:
MTA-IM − MTA-CM = (1 − λ) 1q′
q′1 + λ


1 0 0 · · ·
0 0 0 · · ·
0 0 0 · · ·
... ... ... ...


which is clearly positive. Finally, for HA, comparing (A.67) and (A.74), we have:
MHA-IM − MHA-CM =

1 − 1
µ

mcap q′ − 1
µ
cM
The first term is positive, sinceq ≥ 0 and mcap ≥ 0 since eachmcap
t is a weighted average ofMPCts,
which lemma 3 shows are non-negative. The second term, cM, is weakly negative by proposition
13. Hence, MIM − MCM ≥ 0, which completes the proof.
B.7 Proof of propositions 7 and 8
We start with the proof of proposition 7. Equation (39) shows that the consumption response is
given by
dC = α
1 − α (χ − 1) ∑
k≥0
(1 − α)k Mk+1dQ
with real income moving according to
d PHY
P = α
1 − α (χ − 1) ∑
k≥0
(1 − α)k MkdQ
Since M ≥ 0 by assumption 1, it immediately follows that when χ < 1, dC ≤ 0 and d PHY
P ≤ 0.
This proves proposition 7.
To prove proposition 8, we compute present values of the output solution (40), that is, we
multiply the solution by q′,
PV(dY) = q′dY = α
1 − α q′dQ + α
1 − α (χ − 1) ∑
k≥0
(1 − α)k q′MkdQ
As q′M = q′ by proposition 11, we have that
PV(dY) = χ − (1 − α)
1 − α PV(dQ) (A.90)
A-31

===== PAGE 83 =====
This shows that if χ < 1 − α, the present value of output to a depreciation dQ ≤ 0 is (weakly)
negative; and strictly so if PV(dQ) < 0.
We can similarly derive the present value of the consumption and net export responses dC
and dNX. Applying q′ to dY = α
1−α χdQ + (1 − α) dC gives q′dY = α
1−α χq′dQ + (1 − α) q′dC, and
combining with (A.90), we obtain the result
PV(dC) = χ − 1
1 − α q′dQ (A.91)
For net exports, writing (A.78) in vector form and taking present values gives q′dNX = α
1−α (χ −
1)q′dQ − αq′dC, which we combine with (A.91) to get
q′dNX = 0
which is just rewriting the intertemporal budget constraint of the home economy.
The impact response of output is given by
dY0 = α
1 − α dQ0 + α
1 − α (χ − 1) ∑
k≥0
(1 − α)k
h
MkdQ
i
0
(A.92)
Here, the first entry of matrix MkdQ is denoted by

MkdQ

0. Because dQ ≥ 0 and M ≥ 0, we
know that h
MkdQ
i
0
≥ Mk
0,0dQ0
Thus, if χ < 1, we have
dY0 ≤ α
1 − α dQ0 + α
1 − α (χ − 1) 1
1 − (1 − α) M0,0
dQ0
or simplified
dY0 ≤ α
1 − α
χ − (1 − α) M0,0
1 − (1 − α) M0,0
dQ0
Now, since (A.92) is monotonically increasing in χ, with dY0 = α
1−α dQ0 > 0 for χ = 1 and dY0 ≤ 0
for χ = (1 − α) M0,0, we know that there must exist a threshold χ∗ ∈ [(1 − α) M0,0, 1), such that
dY0 < 0 for any χ < χ∗.
C Appendix to section 4
C.1 International Keynesian cross with monetary shocks
In this section, we derive the international Keynesian cross with monetary policy shocks (44),
dY = (1 − α) Mrdr + α
1 − α χdQ − αMdQ + (1 − α) MdY
We proceed just like we did for the derivation of the international Keynesian cross (38). We begin
with the goods market clearing condition (33),
Yt = (1 − α)
 PHt
Pt
−η
Ct + α
 PHt
Et
−γ
C∗
A-32

===== PAGE 84 =====
Linearizing the condition gives (A.80),
dY = α
1 − α χdQ + (1 − α) dC (A.93)
As before, consumption Ct here is described by the intertemporal consumption function (31),
Ct = Ct
 PHs
Ps
Ys
∞
s=0
, {rs}∞
s=0

Let M and Mr denote the Jacobians of C with respect to real income and real interest rates. To first
order, therefore,
dC = − α
1 − α MdQ + MdY + Mrdr (A.94)
where the first two terms are exactly as in (A.79). Substituting (A.94) into (A.93) yields (44).
C.2 Proof of proposition 9
Proof of the non-linear neutrality result for η = γ = 1. We start by proving the neutrality result non-
linearly. To do so, we state an important property that comes out of the closed economy result
in Werning (2015) based on its proof in Appendix A of Auclert, Rognlie and Straub (2020). The
consumption function that we introduce in Section 4, Ct = Ct (rt, Yt), where we abbreviate real
income by Yt ≡ PHt
Pt
Yt, has the following property,
Ct ({rs, Ys}) = Yt · Ct

(1 + rs) · Ys
Ys+1
− 1, 1

(A.95)
In particular, this implies that if an aggregate Euler equation relationship betweenYt and rt holds,
that is, 1
Ys
= 1+rs
1+rss
· 1
Ys+1
, this simplifies to
Ct ({rs, Ys}) = Yt · Css (A.96)
where Css = Ct (rss,1) denotes steady state consumption (normalized to 1 in our model).
With this in mind, we now prove the non-linear equivalence result with η = γ = 1, that is,
Yt = YRA
t in response to an arbitrary monetary policy shock {rt}. We begin by deriving CRA
t , YRA
t
and the path of aggregate real income Y RA
t ≡ PHt
Pt
YRA
t in the RA model.
Since we are considering the Cole-Obstfeld case η = 1, the CPI (4) is
Pt = P1−α
Ht E α
t
and the real exchange rate (6) is
Qt = Et
Pt
= Et
P1−α
Ht E α
t
=
 Et
PHt
1−α
In particular, the relative price of home goods in units of the CPI is
PHt
Pt
= PHt
P1−α
Ht E α
t
=
 PHt
Et
α
= (Qt)− α
1−α
A-33

===== PAGE 85 =====
Home output is therefore given by
YRA
t = (1 − α) Q
α
1−α
t CRA
t + αQ
1
1−α
t (A.97)
Observe that if the Backus-Smith condition CRA
t = Qt holds, then (A.97) implies that aggregate
real income is simply given by
Y RA
t = PHt
Pt
YRA
t = Q
− α
1−α
t YRA
t = CRA
t (A.98)
Moreover, aggregate consumption satisfies the Euler equation (25),
1
CRA
t
= 1 + rt
1 + rss
1
CRA
t+1
(A.99)
Combining (A.98) and (A.99), we see that Y RA
t satisfies the same Euler equation,
1
Y RA
t
= 1 + rt
1 + rss
1
Y RA
t+1
(A.100)
To verify that YRA
t , Y RA
t , CRA
t are identical in the HA model, we need to show that
Ct = Ct
n
rs, Y RA
s
o
= CRA
t (A.101)
But (A.101) follows directly from property (A.95) of the consumption function, which simplifies
to (A.96) here given (A.100). Since the other aggregate equations of the model are the same, the
result holds under any monetary policy rule and applies to all aggregate prices and quantities.
This concludes our proof.
Proof to first-order for general η, γ such that (1 − α) η + γ = 2 − α. We proceed in two steps. First we
prove a helpful lemma.
Lemma 1. For our heterogeneous-agent model with σ = 1, we have that
Mr = − (I − M) U (A.102)
Proof to lemma 1. This result is the differential version of (A.95). To see this, construct, for any
given path {rt} a path of real income {Yt} defined recursively by
Yt = 1 + rss
1 + rt
Yt+1
To first order, this equation implies that
dY = −Udr (A.103)
where
U ≡


1 1 1 · · ·
0 1 1 · · ·
0 0 1 · · ·
... ... ... ...

 (A.104)
A-34

===== PAGE 86 =====
Now we linearize (A.95). We find
dC = Mrdr + MdY = dY
Substituting dY with (A.103), this can be restated as
Mrdr − MUdr = −Udr
As this holds for an arbitrary path dr, we find
Mr − MU = −U
which is equivalent to (A.102).
We use lemma 1 to restate the generalized Keynesian cross (44), now with arbitrary η, γ as
dY =
 α
1 − α χ + 1 − α

dQ − MdQ + (1 − α) MdY (A.105)
where dQ continues to be given by dQ = −Udr (see section 4.1) as the implied real exchange rate
response to the monetary policy shock. Solving (A.105) as in appendix B.3, we find
dY = dYRA−CM + α (χ − (2 − α)) (I − (1 − α)M)−1 dQ
Following the same steps as in section B.7, this allows us to sign the magnitude of the output
response relative to the RA solution. For example, in response to monetary easing, inducing an
exchange rate depreciation dQ ≥ 0, a value χ < 2 − α results in an output response dY that lies
below the RA model’s output response.
C.3 Proof of proposition 10
Proof. Linearizing (23) around the steady state (when t > 0), we obtain
dnfat = ( 1 + rss)dnfat−1 + dNX t
Iterating forward, this implies that for any t ≥ 0,
dnfat =
∞
∑
s=1
(1 + rss)−sdNX t+s
Substituting equation (A.78) for dNX t, this becomes
dnfat = α
1 − α (χ − 1)
 
∞
∑
s=1
(1 + rss)−sdQt+s
!
− α
 
∞
∑
s=1
(1 + rss)−sdCt+s
!
In the case where dQt+s = 0 for all s ≥ 1, this simplifies to
∞
∑
s=1
(1 + rss)−sdCt+s = 1
α dnfat (A.106)
the desired expression for the present value of remaining consumption in terms of the NFA.
A-35

===== PAGE 87 =====
For all t + s where dQt+s = 0, we have dYt+s = ( 1 − α)dCt+s, and therefore from (A.106) we
get
∞
∑
s=1
(1 + rss)−sdYt+s = 1 − α
α dnfat
Proof. We also prove the statement here that the present value of the output response to monetary
policy is negative whenever χ < 1 − α. To do so, consider equation (A.105) and take present
values on both sides. Since M preserves present values, we find
PV(dY) =
 α
1 − α χ + 1 − α − 1

PV(dQ) + (1 − α) PV(dY)
and, simplifying,
PV(dY) = χ − (1 − α)
1 − α PV(dQ)
This shows that the present value is negative, due to “stealing demand from the future”, whenever
χ < 1 − α.
C.4 Representative-agent incomplete-market (RA-IM) model
The RA-IM model is a special case of the derivations in appendices C.1–C.2, with specific M and
Mr. Following the same steps as in appendix B.4, we find that, for general σ, we have
M = 1q′
q′1
Mr = − 1
σ (I − M) U
The solution to the international Keynesian cross is
dY = (1 − α) Mrdr + α
1 − α χdQ − αMdQ + (1 − α) MdY
With pure monetary shocks, we have dQ = −Udr, so using the relation between Mr and M this
rewrites as
dY =
1 − α
σ (I − M) + α
1 − α χ − αM

dQ + (1 − α) MdY
or
dY =
 1 − α
σ + α
1 − α χ

I −

α + 1 − α
σ

M

dQ + (1 − α) MdY
Next note that, using the fact that Mk = M for k ≥ 1, we have
(I − (1 − α) M)−1 = I + 1 − α
α M
A-36

===== PAGE 88 =====
so, the solution for the RA-IM model with general σ is
dY =

I + 1 − α
α M
 1 − α
σ + α
1 − α χ

I −

α + 1 − α
σ

M

dQ
=
 1 − α
σ + α
1 − α χ

I +

−

α + 1 − α
σ

+ 1 − α
α
1 − α
σ + α
1 − α χ

− 1 − α
α

α + 1 − α
σ

M

dQ
=
 1 − α
σ + α
1 − α χ

I +

χ − α − (1 − α)

1 + 1
σ

M

dQ
=
1 − α
σ + α
1 − α χ

dQ
| {z }
dYRA-CM
+ 1
1 − α

χ −

1 + 1 − α
σ

MdQ
It immediately follows that, if χ = 1 + 1−α
σ (in particular, when σ = 1 and χ = 2 − α), the solution
collapses to the RA-CM model’s solution. Moreover, when dQ > 0, we have MdQ > 0 (since
M > 0), so dYHA-IM < dYRA-CM if and only if χ < 1 + 1−α
σ . This completes the extension of
Proposition 9 to the comparison between RA-CM and RA-IM.
C.5 Taylor rules and productivity shocks
In this section, we explore how the HA and RA models respond to shocks when the central bank
follows a Taylor rule based on producer prices, as in Galí and Monacelli (2005). We first revisit
the neutrality results for exchange rate depreciations and monetary policy, and then consider the
response to productivity shocks as well.
Exchange rate depreciations. A depreciation dQt ≥ 0, dι∗
t ≥ 0, affects the demand for home goods
and thus PPI inflation πHt = πwt through the Phillips curve (18). CPI inflation is then determined
by
πt = πHt + α
1 − α (dQt − dQt−1) (A.107)
and the real interest rate path by
drt = dιt − πt+1 = ϕπHt − πHt+1 − α
1 − α (dQt+1 − dQt) (A.108)
As the Phillips curve involves endogenous variables, that themselves depend ondrt, this situation
is significantly less tractable than the case with a fixed real interest rate. Still, we can make progress
by focusing on AR(1) shocks to ι∗
t , with some fixed persistence ρ ∈ (0, 1). We show below that, in
this case, there still exists a value for χ,
χ = 1 − α 1 + ζ φ
1 + ζ (φ + σ) ∈ (1 − α, 1) , ζ ≡ κw (ϕ − ρ)
(1 − ρ) (1 − βρ) > 0
for which the responses of all aggregate variables, such as output, employment, and consumption
are independent of M, and hence the same for the RA and the HA model.55
Monetary policy shocks. The path of real rates is now no longer just a function of the path of
monetary policy shocks ϵt; it also depends on the response of inflation, and thereby also on the
endogenous response of aggregate variables. However, the international Keynesian cross (44) and
dQ = −Udr still hold, and thus, for χ = 2 − α, the response of aggregates to the shock is still
55The response is also the same in the incomplete markets RA and the TA model.
A-37

===== PAGE 89 =====
independent of M conditional on a given real interest rate path. This is why our neutrality result
for monetary policy goes through unchanged for the Taylor rule ιt = rss + ϕπHt + ϵt.
Productivity shocks. The exact same logic applies to the case of productivity shocks Zt. Those
shocks affect home prices according to PHt = µ Wt/Zt. This causes shifts in wage inflation via the
Phillips curve (18) and thus shifts in real interest rates via (A.108). Since the responses in RA and
HA models to changes in real interest rates are still identical when χ = 2 − α, the responses to
productivity shocks in both models are also identical for this choice of χ.
Proof of the result on exchange rate depreciations with a Taylor rule. We focus on AR(1)
shocks here, such that dQt = ρdQt−1 for some ρ ∈ (0, 1). The output response with a Taylor rule
is determined by the following system of equations. The first is the international Keynesian cross
(44),
dY = − (1 − α) (I − M) Udr + α χ
1 − α dQ − αMdQ + (1 − α) MdY (A.109)
simplified using (A.102). The second is the Phillips curve for wage inflation (18), in linearized
terms given by
πwt = κw (φdNt + σdCt) + βπwt+1 (A.110)
The third is the determination of the real interest rate through the Taylor rule (A.108),
drt = dιt − πt+1 = ϕπwt − πwt+1 − α
1 − α (dQt+1 − dQt) (A.111)
and the forth is the determination of the real exchange rate as
dQt = ∑
s≥t
di∗
s − drs
1 + r (A.112)
We guess and verify that all variables are exponentially decaying with the same persistence ρ.
In this case,
dr = k · di∗
with an unknown k = dr0
di∗
0
. From (A.112), we then get that
dQ = 1
1 − ρ (di∗ − dr) = k−1 − 1
1 − ρ dr (A.113)
So we can rewrite (A.109) as
dY =

α χ
1 − α − (1 − α) k
1 − k

dQ − M

α − (1 − α) k
1 − k

dQ + (1 − α) MdY (A.114)
Rearranging,
dY −

α χ
1 − α − (1 − α) k
1 − k

dQ = (1 − α) M
 
dY − α − (1 − α) k
1−k
1 − α dQ
!
we see that the solution is independent of M precisely if and only if
α χ
1 − α − (1 − α) k
1 − k = α − (1 − α) k
1−k
1 − α
A-38

===== PAGE 90 =====
which is equivalent to
χ = 1 − (1 − α) k
1 − k
For k = 0, we recover neutrality at χ = 1. For k → ∞, the monetary response dominates the
output response, so the threshold converges to χ → 2 − α. In case the neutrality result holds, the
output response is given by
dY =
 α
1 − α − k
1 − k

dQ
Given the linear production function, this is equivalent to the employment response, dN = dY.
The aggregate consumption response is
dC = − k
1 − k dQ
Substituting these formulas into the linearized wage Phillips curve (A.110), we find that
πwt = 1
1 − βρ κw (φdNt + σdCt) = 1
1 − βρ κw

φ
 α
1 − α − k
1 − k

− σ k
1 − k

dQt
and therefore that
drt =
 ϕ − ρ
1 − βρ κw

φ
 α
1 − α − k
1 − k

− σ k
1 − k

+ α
1 − α (1 − ρ)

dQt
Comparing this with (A.113), we find an equation for k/(1 − k),
(1 − ρ) k
1 − k = ϕ − ρ
1 − βρ κw

φ
 α
1 − α − k
1 − k

− σ k
1 − k

+ α
1 − α (1 − ρ)
We solve this equation for k/(1 − k)

1 − ρ + ϕ − ρ
1 − βρ κw (φ + σ)
 k
1 − k = ϕ − ρ
1 − βρ κw φ α
1 − α + α
1 − α (1 − ρ)

1 − ρ + ϕ − ρ
1 − βρ κw (φ + σ)
 k
1 − k = α
1 − α

1 − ρ + ϕ − ρ
1 − βρ κw φ

k
1 − k = α
1 − α ·
1 + κw(ϕ−ρ)
(1−ρ)(1−βρ) φ
1 + κw(ϕ−ρ)
(1−ρ)(1−βρ) (φ + σ)
Note that the solution lies in k ∈ (0, α). The neutrality threshold is then given by
χ = 1 − α
1 + κw(ϕ−ρ)
(1−ρ)(1−βρ) φ
1 + κw(ϕ−ρ)
(1−ρ)(1−βρ) (φ + σ)
∈ (1 − α, 1)
A-39

===== PAGE 91 =====
D Appendix to section 5
D.1 Non-homothetic demand
The Bellman equation (9) that incorporates the preferences in (47) reads
Vt (ap, e) = max
cF,cH,a′
u
h
α1/η (cF − c)(η−1)/η + (1 − α)1/η c(η−1)/η
H
iη/(η−1)
−v (Nt) + βEt

Vt+1
 
(1 + rt)a′, e′
s.t. PFt
Pt
cF + PHt
Pt
cH + a′ = ap + Wt
Pt
Nt
a′ ≥ 0
Notice that, by relabeling ecF ≡ cF − c, this is equivalent to
Vt (ap, e) = max
ecF,cH,a′
u
h
α1/η (ecF)(η−1)/η + (1 − α)1/η c(η−1)/η
H
iη/(η−1)
−v (Nt) + βEt

Vt+1
 
(1 + rt)a′, e′
s.t. PFt
Pt
ecF + PHt
Pt
cH + a′ = ap + Wt
Pt
Nt − PFt
Pt
c
a′ ≥ 0
or, definingec =
h
α1/η (ecF)(η−1)/η + (1 − α)1/η c(η−1)/η
H
iη/(η−1)
, as simply
Vt (ap, e) = max
ec,a′
u (ec) − v (Nt) + βEt

Vt+1
 
(1 + rt)a′, e′
s.t. ec + a′ = ap + Wt
Pt
Nt − PFt
Pt
c
a′ ≥ 0
where Pt is the standard CES price index (4). Hence, this is the standard consumption-saving
problem, only with a modified income process that subtracts − PFt
Pt
c to real income in every state
of the world. The policy functions ect (ap, e), at+1 (ap, e) for this problem, as well as the aggregates
fCF and At+1 of policies integrated against the time varying distribution, can be obtained from the
sequence of inputs
n
rp
t , wtNt, PFt
Pt
c
o
using standard tools. Since every agent’s policy forcFt (ap, e) =
c +fcFt (ap, e) , it follows that aggregate spending on foreign goods is simply
CFt = c + fCFt
= c + α
 PFt
Pt
−η
eCt (A.115)
while aggregate spending on domestic goods is
CHt = (1 − α)
 PHt
Pt
−η
eCt (A.116)
A-40

===== PAGE 92 =====
Note that equations (A.115) and (A.116) only require the standard CES prices index Pt, which is
the price index of an infinitely wealthy agent, and do not require the ideal price indices for agents
at different points in the distribution (ap, e).
D.2 Unequal incidence of aggregate shocks
As in Auclert and Rognlie (2018), we assume that the real labor income of a household with pro-
ductivity e, denoted inct(e), is
inct(e) = Wt
Pt
Nt
e1+ζ log
 Wt
Pt Nt

Wss
Pss Nss

R
˜e1+ζ log
 Wt
Pt Nt

Wss
Pss Nss

d ˜e
(A.117)
Elasticity to aggregate shocks. Taking logs and differentiating this equation with respect to
aggregate income Wt
Pt
Nt around the steady state gives
d log inct(e) =

ζ log e + 1 − ζ
Z
˜e log ˜ed ˜e

d log
Wt
Pt
Nt

(A.118)
Hence, the elasticity of individual income to aggregate income d log inct(e)/d log

Wt
Pt
Nt

is in-
creasing in ζ log e. When ζ < 0, the income of low-productivity households increases more than
the income of high-productivity households in booms and falls more in recessions.
Calibration. We use information from Blanco et al. (2024) to calibrate ζ. The authors provided
us with estimates for bi from a regression
∆ log incjit = ai + bi∆ log
Wt
Pt
Nt

+ ϵjit (A.119)
where j indicates a worker, and i the decile of income. The equation is estimated for each income
decile i separately using administrative employer-employee data from Argentina. ∆ log incjit is
the annual growth rate of real income for workerj in income decile i and ∆ log Wt
Pt
Nt is the average
annual growth of real income for all workers. The income deciles are defined using income in
2000-2001 and the estimation is done on the 2000-2006 period.
In our model, we can aggregate equation (A.118) across workers within income decile i to get
d log incit ≡ ∑
e∈i
d log inct(e) =
 
ζ ∑
e∈i
log e + 1 − ζ
Z
˜e log ˜ed ˜e
!
d log
Wt
Pt
Nt

(A.120)
Our strategy is to findζ < 0 such that the standard deviation across income deciles of the elasticity
in the model ˆbi ≡ ζ ∑e∈i log e + 1 − ζ
 R
˜e log ˜ed ˜e

is identical to the standard deviation of the
elasticity in the data bi56.
56Equation (A.120) can be written as dincit = ( inci
W
P N
ˆbi)d( Wt
Pt Nt). The identity ∑i incit = Wt
Pt Nt implies that
∑i( inci
W
P N
ˆbi) = 1. In the data, this identity does not hold so we multiply the empirical estimates for bi by
a constant to ensure that ∑i( inci
W
P N bi) = 1. This manipulation influences the levels of bi but has very little
impact on our estimates for ζ since we target the standard deviation of bi across income deciles.
A-41

===== PAGE 93 =====
D.3 Delayed substitution model
We introduce delayed substitution as a modification of the household side of the model, both
in the domestic economy and in the rest of the world. The basic idea is to assume that each
household has only an iid probability 1 − θ in each period of being able to adjust the composition
of its consumption bundle x. With probability θ, the household is required to keep the same
consumption bundle x, and consume each good in proportion to it, i.e. ck = xkc, where xk is the
amount of k in the consumption bundle and c is total consumption.
First we work out the analytics, in a general static problem where consumption is some constant-
returns-to-scale aggregate of many goods, of the optimal bundle given the prices of each good.
Then we show how this problem can be embedded in the dynamic incomplete markets problem
that the households in our model solve, and work out the first-order equations characterizing
household behavior. Finally, we specialize the consumption side to the nested CES of home and
foreign goods in our model, and derive the consequences.
Static problem: the optimal bundle in terms of prices. Suppose that a household has
preferences over aggregate consumption goods using some constant-returns-to-scale aggregator
F
c = F(c1, . . . ,cK) (A.121)
We define a bundle {xk} as anything that gives a total consumption of one
1 = F(x1, . . . ,xK) (A.122)
and say that the price index P({xk}, {Pk}) corresponding to this bundle is just its cost:
P({xk}, {Pk}) = ∑
k
Pkxk (A.123)
The cost of the bundle that minimizes (A.123) subject to (A.122) is the ordinary price index P.
Consider the optimal bundle { ˆxk} given some prices {Pk}, i.e. the solution to the problem of
minimizing price (A.123) subject to (A.122). The Lagrangian is
∑
k
Pk ˆxk − λ (F( ˆx1, . . . ,ˆxK) − 1)
and first-order conditions are
Pk = λFk (A.124)
(Note that since F is constant-returns-to-scale, the marginal cost λ equals the conventional price
index P.)
Log-differentiating gives
d log Pk = d log λ + d log Fk
= d log λ + ∑
k′
Fkk′ ˆxk′
Fk
d log ˆxk′ (A.125)
Log-differentiating the condition F( ˆx1, . . . ,ˆxk) = 1 gives
∑
k
Fk ˆxk
F d log ˆxk = 0 (A.126)
A-42

===== PAGE 94 =====
We note that ∑k′
Fkk′ ˆxk′
Fk
= 0 by Euler’s identity: a proportional shift in all ˆxk does not change
any partial derivatives. This means that the matrix F ≡ [ Fkk′ ˆxk′
Fk
]kk′ has a null vector of ones. By
the envelope theorem, we also know that dλ = ∑k dPk ˆxk, or that d log λ = ∑k αkd log Pk, where
αk ≡ Pk ˆxk/P is the share of good k in the bundle. So then we need to find the solution ˆx to
Fd log ˆx = d log P − (α′d log P)1 (A.127)
such that (A.126) holds, i.e. ∑k
Fk ˆxk
F d log ˆxk = 0. Given one such solution d log ˆx to (A.127), we can
find exactly one that satisfies (A.126), since 1 is in the null-space of F.57 Let us denote the linear
map from d log P to this solution d log ˆx by the matrix G:
d log ˆx = Gd log P (A.128)
Incomplete markets dynamic problem. Now consider a household who is solving a gen-
eralization of the standard incomplete markets problem in (9), where consumption within each
period t is given by an aggregator (A.121) of goods with prices Pt = {Pkt}. We assume that the
household picks a bundle x ≡ { xk} of goods giving an aggregate of 1 as in (A.122), and must
consume in proportion to that bundle until it receives a Calvo option to reset the bundle, which
has probability 1− θ in each period. (Since the bundle has aggregate value 1, consumption of each
good in each period is given by cikt = xkcit.)
The value function given an inherited x at date t is then
Vt (a, e, x) = max
E,a′
U

E · Pt
¯P(x, Pt)

+ βθEt

Vt+1
 
a′, e′, x

+ β (1 − θ) E

max
x′
Vt+1
 
a′, e′, x′
E + a′ =
 
1 + rp
t

a + wnt(e) (A.129)
a′ ≥ a
where the choice is made over expenditure in real units deflated at the ordinary price indexPt, but
consumption may be less because the actual cost of consumption at the fixed bundle x is ¯P(x, Pt).
Note that the envelope condition for x, which appears only in the objective (A.129), is
∂Vt(a, e, x)
∂x = −U′(ct)ct
∂ log ¯P(x, Pt)
∂x + βθEt
 ∂Vt+1(a′, e′, x)
∂x

= −U′(ct)ctPt + βθEt
 ∂Vt+1(a′, e′, x)
∂x

(A.130)
where we use ∂ log ¯P(x,Pt)
∂x = Pt from (A.123) to simplify and denote real consumption, i.e. the
aggregate in (A.121), by ct. Recursively expanding this out and subsuming the states a and e into
the subscript i ≡ (a, e), we get
∂Vit(xit)
∂x = Eit
∞
∑
s=0
(βθ)sU′(cit+s)cit+sPt+s (A.131)
57In more detail: assuming that F ≡ [ Fkk′ ˆxk′
Fk
]kk′ otherwise has full rank, i.e. its rank is K − 1, then we note
that α′F = 0, so that the range ofF is the space orthogonal toα. The right side of (A.127) is always orthogonal
to α. There is therefore always a one-dimensional space of solutions to (A.127), with the difference between
any two solutions given by a multiple of 1, and exactly one of these solutions will satisfy (A.126) as well.
A-43

===== PAGE 95 =====
Now suppose that we are maximizing over feasible ˆxit, i.e. solving the problem which has La-
grangian
Vit(ˆx) − λ (F( ˆx1, . . . ,ˆxK) − 1) (A.132)
where for simplicity we suppress thei and t subscripts on ˆx. The first-order condition with respect
to each ˆxk is
Eit
∞
∑
s=0
(βθ)sU′(cit+s)cit+sPk,t+s = λFk (A.133)
In a steady state, with constant pricesPk,t+s = Pk, this simplifies toPk = (Eit ∑∞
s=0(βθ)sU′(cit+s)cit+s)−1 λFk,
which is the same as the static first-order condition (A.124) but with an extra factor rescaling λ.
The constraint (A.122) is also the same as in the static problem. Therefore the steady-state solution
is the same (with a bundle independent of i), and while λ equaled the conventional price index P
in the static problem, it now equals P times an extra factor:
P
 
Eit
∞
∑
s=0
(βθ)sU′(cit+s)cit+s
!
= λ (A.134)
Now consider linearizing (A.133) around the steady-state prices P and bundle ˆx. We get
PkEit
∞
∑
s=0
(βθ)sd(U′(cit+s)cit+s) + Eit
∞
∑
s=0
(βθ)sU′(cit+s)cit+sdPk,t+s = λFk(d log λ + d log Fk) (A.135)
and then, noting that ∑k dFk ˆxk = 0 and ∑k Pk ˆxk = P, we can sum this weighted by ˆxk to obtain
PEit
∞
∑
s=0
(βθ)sd(U′(cit+s)cit+s) + Eit
∞
∑
s=0
(βθ)sU′(cit+s)cit+s ∑
k
ˆxkdPk,t+s = λd log λ (A.136)
Now, if we multiply both sides of (A.136) by Fk, use Pk = PFk, and subtract it from (A.135), the
first term on both sides cancels and we get
Eit
∞
∑
s=0
(βθ)sU′(cit+s)cit+s
 
dPk,t+s − Fk ∑
k′
ˆxk′dPk′,t+s
!
= λFkd log Fk
Now, divide both sides by Pk = PFk, we we get
Eit
∞
∑
s=0
(βθ)sU′(cit+s)cit+s
 
d log Pk,t+s − ∑
k′
αk′d log Pk′,t+s
!
= λ
P d log Fk
and finally, using (A.134), we get
d log Fk = Eit ∑∞
s=0(βθ)sU′(cit+s)cit+s (d log Pk,t+s − ∑k′ αk′d log Pk′,t+s)
Eit ∑∞
s=0(βθ)sU′(cit+s)cit+s
for each k, which in vector form (using F ≡ [ Fkk′ ˆxk′
Fk
]kk′ from the static problem) can be stacked as
Fd log ˆx = Eit ∑∞
s=0(βθ)sU′(cit+s)cit+s (d log Pt − (α′d log Pt)1)
Eit ∑∞
s=0(βθ)sU′(cit+s)cit+s
(A.137)
A-44

===== PAGE 96 =====
The solution ˆx is whatever satisfies (A.137) and also satisfies ∑k
Fk ˆxk
F d log ˆxk = 0.
In the static problem, we obtained the matrixG that mapped d log P to d log ˆx in order to solve
Fd log ˆx = d log P − (α′d log P)1, subject to the same condition ∑k
Fk ˆxk
F d log ˆxk = 0, for a single
change in log prices dlog P. Using linearity, we can combine this with (A.137) and move G inside
the numerator to obtain
d log ˆxit = Eit ∑∞
s=0(βθ)sU′(cit+s)cit+sGd log Pt
Eit ∑∞
s=0(βθ)sU′(cit+s)cit+s
= Eit ∑∞
s=0(βθ)sU′(cit+s)cit+s · d log ˆxstatic
t+s
Eit ∑∞
s=0(βθ)sU′(cit+s)cit+s
(A.138)
where we define d log ˆxstatic
t+s = Gd log Pt+s to be the statically optimal bundle given prices at time
t + s, ignoring the substitution friction, and restore the explicit i and t subscripts.
(A.138) is our primary result: the log change around the aggregate steady state in optimum
bundle for individual i at time t, given the substitution friction, is a weighted average of the log
change around the aggregate steady state in future static optimum bundles, with the weight on
each future date t + s being (βθ)sU′(cit+s)cit+s.
Special cases (RA-CM and log preferences). (A.138) is somewhat complex, but there are
two special cases where it simplifies dramatically. First, if there is a representative agent and
complete markets, then in the aggregate steady state, consumption cit+s in (A.138) is constant
over time. Second, if U(c) = log c, then U′(c)c = 1. In both cases, (A.138) collapses to just
d log ˆxt = (1 − βθ)Et
∞
∑
s=0
(βθ)sd log ˆxstatic
t+s (A.139)
These correspond to the cases we will consider in this paper: log preferences for the heterogeneous
agents in the domestic economy, and a representative agent in foreign economies. Note that even
in the former case, the i subscripts now disappear: all agents want to set the same bundle.58
Evolution of aggregate bundle. Note that in (A.129), the bundle x only enters the problem in
¯P(x, Pt), which is second-order inx around the steady-state optimum. Heterogeneity inx therefore
has a second-order impact on total consumption cit+s of each individual.
Disregarding these second-order terms, in period t, aggregate consumption of good k is
Ckt =
Z  
(1 − θ)
∞
∑
s=0
θs ˆxkt−scit
!
di =
 
(1 − θ)
∞
∑
s=0
θs ˆxkt−s
!Z
citdi
=
 
(1 − θ)
∞
∑
s=0
θs ˆxkt−s
!
| {z }
≡xkt
Ct
58In the general case, without the simplification (A.139), for each agent type i in the state space,
Eit(βθ)sU′(cit+s)cit+s can be calculated recursively for increasing s using the law of iterated expectations.
With this, we can implement (A.138) and can calculate how, for each i, d log ˆ xit depends on the path of
ˆxstatic
t+s . (Note that this only depends on i and s, not on t, due to translation invariance.) Similar tricks are
needed to aggregate below into an effective average bundled log xt at each date, since the choice of d log ˆ xit
is no longer independent of expected consumption cit+s.
A-45

===== PAGE 97 =====
where
R
di denotes aggregation over the idiosyncratic state space i = (s, a) (using the distribution
of agents from the aggregate steady state). For each i, the mass (1 − θ)θs of agents whose bundle
were last updated in period t − s consume ˆxkt−scit of good k. Aggregating over all s, factoring
out, and defining xkt ≡ (1 − θ) ∑∞
s=0 θs ˆxkt−s to be the “average” bundle at date t, we have simply
Ckt = xktCt.
In log deviations from steady state, we haved log Ckt − d log Ct = d log xkt, where stacking and
log-linearizing the definition of xt immediately yields
d log xt = (1 − θ)
∞
∑
s=0
θsd log ˆxkt−s (A.140)
Summarizing the system. We can rewrite (A.139) and (A.140) in AR(1) form as
d log ˆxt = (1 − βθ)d log ˆxstatic
t + βθEtd log ˆxt+1 (A.141)
d log xt = (1 − θ)d log ˆxt + θd log xt−1 (A.142)
After calculating the statically optimal bundles d log ˆxstatic
t , one can iterate backward on (A.141) to
obtain all d log ˆxt, and then iterate forward on (A.142) to obtain all d log xt.
Application to our nested CES case. Suppose that the consumption aggregator function F
takes the form
F(cH, cF1, . . . ,cFn) =

(1 − α)1/ηc(η−1)/η
H + α1/ηcF(cF1, . . . ,cFn)(η−1)/η
η/(η−1)
where
cF(cF1, . . . ,cFn) =
 
1
n
n
∑
i=1
c(γ−1)/γ
Fi
!γ/(γ−1)
and the steady-state prices are assumed to be PH = 1 and PFi = 1
n for all i.
It follows directly from standard CES demand that the statically optimal quantities in a bundle
(i.e. the most efficient way to achieve a value F = 1) obey
d log ˆxstatic
H = −ηd log(PH/P) (A.143)
d log ˆxstatic
F = −ηd log(PF/P) (A.144)
d log ˆxstatic
Fi = d log ˆxstatic
F − γd log(PFi/PF) (A.145)
where d log PF = 1
n ∑ d log PFi and d log P = ( 1 − α)d log PH + αd log PF are the standard price
indices. We interpret the limit n → ∞ as the case in this paper, with a continuum of foreign
countries.
Specializing to the two sources of demand for home country goods in our paper, we can com-
bine (A.143) and (A.141) to obtain
d log ˆxHt = −(1 − βθ)ηd log(PHt/Pt) + βθd log ˆxHt+1 (A.146)
and, looking from the perspective of a foreign country demanding the home good (which to it is
one of a continuum of home goods), we can combine (A.145) and (A.141), and use the fact that
there are no aggregate shocks affecting foreign countries (so that the first term on the right in
A-46

===== PAGE 98 =====
(A.145) is zero) to obtain
d log ˆx∗
Ht = −(1 − βθ)γd log(PHt/Et) + βθd log ˆx∗
Ht+1 (A.147)
Both also satisfy (A.142), i.e. d log xHt = ( 1 − θ)d log ˆxHt + θd log xHt−1 and d log x∗
Ht = ( 1 −
θ)d log ˆx∗
Ht + θd log x∗
Ht−1, where CHt = xHtCt and C∗
Ht = x∗
HtC∗
t .
Note that one feature of this model is that the elasticities are not just time-dependent, but also
shock-dependent: d log ˆxHt and d log ˆx∗
Ht are forward-looking, and they are therefore of greater
magnitude when the shocks to d log PHt
Pt
and d log PHt
Et
are more persistent. This leads to a greater
response of d log xHt and d log x∗
Ht to persistent shocks, and it can explain, for instance, why per-
manent tariff changes can have different effects on export volumes than shocks to exchange rates
due to capital flows, as estimated in Fitzgerald and Haller (2018) and Cavallo, Gopinath, Neiman
and Tang (2021).
Combining delayed substitution with non-homothetic demand. One has to assume that
the consumption bundle xF is defined in terms of the consumption of foreign goods net of the
subsistence level, i.e. ecF ≡ cF − c. This way, the consumption aggregator F(cH,ecF) is constant-
returns-to-scale and the derivations in this section go through. The aggregate consumption of
foreign goods by home agents is then given by CFt = c + xFteCt.
D.4 Calibrating the income process
This appendix provides details on the calibration of the income process.
From the GRID project (Guvenen et al. 2022), we obtain estimates for Mexico of the standard
deviation and autocorrelation of order 1 for the residual log annual income of females and males
aged 25 to 55 years old. The average estimates for the years 2005 to 2019 are 1.1 for the standard
deviation and 0.78 for the autocorrelation.
We then adjust these series for progressive income taxation, using estimates from De Magal-
haes et al. (2022). The authors estimate a tax function of the form
log incomepost-tax = cst + (1 − ϕ) log incomepre-tax (A.148)
In table 6, the authors report an average estimate of ϕ = 0.24 for Mexico, which implies a
standard deviation of log annual post-tax income of 0.84.
We estimate the persistence and standard deviation of our quarterly income process by sim-
ulated method of moments. Specifically, we simulate a quarterly AR(1) for log income with per-
sistence ρe and standard deviation of innovations ˜σe. We then average the quarterly series at the
annual level and search for the parametersρe, ˜σe such that the standard deviation and autocorrela-
tion of order 1 of the annual averages match the estimates from the data. The parameter reported
in table 2, denoted σe, represents the standard deviation of quarterly log income.
We then approximate the quarterly AR(1) with a Markov chain following Rouwenhorst (1995)
with a grid of 7 points for productivity e. For the non-homothetic model, we rescale income e
using
erescaled = e(1 − µ c) + µ c (A.149)
so that households with the lowest productivity and without assets can still afford the subsistence
level c at wage w = 1/µ . To ensure that the level of risk remains the same with and without
A-47

===== PAGE 99 =====
non-homothetic demand, we adjust the volatility of innovations to productivity so that the cross-
sectional dispersion in productivity e remains the same after the rescaling.
D.5 Calibrating openness and price pass-through
This appendix provides data from a representative set of countries that experienced a large depre-
ciation. This includes Mexico, which we use as our main calibration target, as well as eight other
countries with a depreciation episode studied in Burstein and Gopinath (2015).
Calibrating α. We start by providing recent data on the import/GDP ratio from the IMF In-
ternational Financial Statistics in the top panel of Table A.1. The import-GDP ratio informs the
choice of α in our benchmark model, or of the aggregate CF
C in our quantitative model with non-
homothetic demand. This justifies our calibration to α = 0.4 for Mexico.
Calibrating θF. To calibrate price stickiness parameters, we use information from the country’s
large devaluation episode to inform our choice of exchange rate pass-through. For this exercise,
we proceed as follows. We start from the equations describing the dynamics of import prices PFt
in response to an exchange rate change, (50). Note that this equation delivers price dynamics as
a pure function of the exchange rate path Et and parameters θF and r, independently of the rest
of the model. In particular, (50) implies that the linearized price dynamics of pFt = log PFt in
response to an impulse to the exchange rate of et = log Et are
pFt − pFt−1 =
 
1 − 1
1+r θF

(1 − θF)
θF
(et − pFt) + 1
1 + r (pFt+1 − pFt) (A.150)
We conceptualize the exchange rate depreciations experienced by each country in our case study
as a one-time permanent shock to the exchange rate, from its initial level of e−1 = 0 to et = e
for t ≥ 0. Though stylized, this provides a useful approximation to the behavior of the nominal
exchange rate in these episodes (see e.g. Burstein, Eichenbaum and Rebelo 2005, figure 1). It is
easy to verify that the solution for pFt under this particular path for et in (A.150) is:
pFt = e
 
1 − θt
F

(A.151)
Equation (A.151) delivers a simple way to back out the Calvo price rigidity coefficient as a function
of the import price pass-through as of date t,
θF =

1 − pFt
e
 1
t
(A.152)
To perform this calculation for each of our countries, we need a measure of the pass-through to
the retail price of imported goods, pFt/e at some date t following the depreciation at t = 0. Burstein,
Eichenbaum and Rebelo (2005) (henceforth BER) measured pass-through at 24 months, corre-
sponding to t = 8, but only for dock prices, tradable retail prices and nontradable retail prices.
We convert this information into a measure of the retail price of imported goods following BER’s
framework. Specifically, we assume that (log) traded goods prices pTt are made up of imported
goods prices and local goods, whose price is well proxied by the price of non-traded goods, so
that
pTt = (1 − ϕ) pFt + ϕpNt (A.153)
A-48

===== PAGE 100 =====
Mexico Argentina Brazil Korea Thailand Finland Sweden Italy UK
Latest data 2019 2019 2019 2019 2019 2019 2019 2019 2019
Imports/GDP 40% 15% 14% 37% 51% 40% 44% 29% 32%
Depreciation year 1994 2001 1998 1997 1997 1992 1992 1992 1992
Dock PT 107% 87% 126% 60% 68% 116% 76% 63% 141%
Tradable retail PT 82% 36% 36% 30% 28% 64% 29% 32% 22%
Nontradable PT 42% 10% 20% 14% 28% 26% 25% 27% 58%
Imported retail PT 122% 63% 52% 46% 28% 102% 34% 38% -15%
Implied θF 0.00 0.78 0.91 0.93 0.96 0.00 0.95 0.94 1.00
dY0 - 0.12 - 0.03 - 0.01 0.01 0.03 - 0.12 0.02 0.00 0.05
∑3
t=0 dYt - 0.24 - 0.11 - 0.04 0.02 0.13 - 0.24 0.08 0.01 0.16
Notes: data on dock and retail pass-through are taken from Table 7.5 in Burstein and Gopinath (2015), using the ratio of the increase
in dock import prices and retail prices at 24 month to the trade weighted exchange rate at 24 month. Data on imports are taken from
the IMF International Financial Statistics. The bottom two rows replicate the exercise of Table 3 for these countries.
Table A.1: Imported price pass-through and openness for selected countries
Following BER, we assume ϕ = 1/2, and use equation (A.153) to back out pFt.59
The bottom row of Table A.1 reports the result of this exercise. The first two rows reportpDt/e,
pTt/e and pNt/e for t = 8 quarters. The next row reports pFt/e backed out from (A.153), and the
final row reports the implied quarterly θF from equation (A.152). As can be seen, the devaluations
suggest a lot of heterogeneity in imported price pass-through in each episode. In Mexico, this
procedures infers full price pass-through, given the large movements in tradable retail prices and
limited movement in nontradable prices. This is consistent with the large amount of price pass-
through observed at the dock in that episode. In other episodes tradable retail prices move a
lot less, so our procedure infers much more limited import price pass-through. The range of
values that we obtain for the pass-through of exchange rates into import prices is consistent with
estimates from Campa and Goldberg (2005) for OECD countries.
Calibrating θw. We also use information from Table A.1 to calibrate the wage stickiness pa-
rameter θw . We use information from the time path of non-traded good prices, which in our
model correspond to pHt, in order to discipline that parameter. Note that, in contrast to θF, which
is identified directly from the price pass-through data, θw depends on the entire structure of the
model, and in particular on the relationship between monetary policy and domestic economic ac-
tivity. Moreover, the path of pHt does not separately identify the stickiness of wages θw and the
stickiness of prices θH. We therefore follow the standard in the literature and set θH to imply a
price duration of 3 quarters. We then find θw to match the path of prices in response to the pure
devaluation shock as described above.
Figure A.3 shows the outcome of that exercise. The left panel plots the path of prices PHt after
the devaluation in the model and in our data, and the right panel plots the sum of square distance
59We obtain similar results if we assume that the retail price of imported goods is a mix pFt =
(1 − ϕ) pDt + ϕpNt of dock prices and non-traded goods prices.
A-49

===== PAGE 101 =====
Figure A.3: Calibrating θw
−2 0 2 4 6 8 10 12
Quarters
0
25
50
75
100
125
150
175Percent of s.s.
Path of prices PHt
Nominal exchange rate E
PHt with θw = 0.938
PHt with θw = 0.66
PHt during Mexican 1994 devaluation
0.70 0.75 0.80 0.85 0.90 0.95
θw
0
10
20
30
40
50
Distance between model PHt and data
Note: The left panel shows the impulse response of home goods prices PHt following a permanent change in the nominal exchange
rate Et. The data is taken from Table 7.5 in Burstein and Gopinath (2015). The right panel plots the sum of square distance between
model and data at t = 4 and t = 8, for different values of the calvo parameter θw.
between model and data at t = 4 and t = 8. When wages are relatively flexible (θw = 0.66), home
goods prices increase too fast in response to the devaluation shock relative to the path of prices
that we observed in the Mexican devaluation. Our model infers that wages are stickier than this,
with a calvo parameter equal to θw = 0.938.
We use the calibration in this section to consider the effect of depreciations in other countries
than our benchmark of Mexico, which featured high openness and full import pass-through. We
recalibrate our model to hit their import-GDP ratio and their degree of import price pass-through,
but keeping the MPCs the same. The bottom two rows of the table illustrates that the effects of the
same exchange rate shock are very heterogeneous across countries. Countries with lower import
price pass-through have much less of an immediate impact on output, since the real income effect
is really muted. Openness has a non-monotonic effect, since the immediate effect of an exchange
rate depreciation is not as large in an economy that is more closed, but the general equilibrium
effect of any open international position is much larger, through the logic of Proposition 10.
D.6 Currency mismatch in balance sheets
To incorporate currency mismatch in the net foreign asset position, we proceed as follows. We
expand the setting in section 2 by allowing agents to invest in long-duration domestic-currency
and foreign-currency assets, modeled as bonds with nominal coupons that exponentially decay at
a rate δ and with prices Qt and Q∗
t respectively, where δ is calibrated to empirical duration data.
We then consider an incomplete markets scenario where all agents hold an equal portfolio with
gross positions in these assets, and another where this portfolio is held by the government.
Direct investment. We first assume that agents hold these long-duration assets directly. Sup-
pressing the choice of domestic and foreign nominal one-period bonds for simplicity (we will
assume that these are not held by anyone in equilibrium), the budget constraint in (1), for an
agent in state (s, Λ, Λ∗, e) becomes
Ptc + Pts′ + QtΛ′ + EtQ∗
t Λ∗′ = (Pt + Dt) s + (1 + δQt) Λ + Et (1 + δQ∗
t ) Λ∗ + eWtNt
A-50

===== PAGE 102 =====
where Λ, Λ∗ are the number of domestic-currency and foreign-currency asset coupons held at the
beginning of the period.
No arbitrage now implies, in addition to the equations in (5), that
1 + ιt = 1 + δQt+1
Qt
, 1 + ι∗
t = 1 + δQ∗
t+1
Q∗
t
(A.154)
which gives the valuation equation for the bond prices Qt, Q∗
t .
The real value of end-of-period assets a′
t, and the real value of beginning-of-period assets in-
cluding returns ap
t , are now defined respectively as
a′
t ≡ Pts′ + QtΛ′ + EtQ∗
t Λ∗′
Pt
, ap
t ≡ (Pt + Dt) s + (1 + δQt) Λ + Et (1 + δQ∗
t ) Λ∗
Pt
(A.155)
and given these definitions, the problem can still be written in the form (9).
In the steady state, we now have
ap
−1 = (1 + rss)psssH
−1 + (1 + iss) QssΛ−1 + (1 + i∗
ss) Q∗
ssΛ∗
−1| {z }
≡ fYY
(A.156)
We continue to calibrate the steady state of the model so that agents have total value of
beginning-of-period assets ap
−1 = ( 1 + rss)pss (so that in particular, in the aggregate we have
nfa−1 = 0) and hold all of domestic stocks sH
−1 = 1. However, we now allow for a gross cur-
rency mismatch, where the country holds a share fY of foreign currency assets in excess of foreign
currency liabilities, relative to its GDP , with all agents holding the country portfolio. This invest-
ment is offset by foreign direct investment in domestic nominal bonds. When fY < 0, as in the
data, the country has borrowed in foreign currency and invested in domestic bonds.
After a depreciation induced by a change in the path of ι∗
t for t ≥ 0, the country experiences
an adverse valuation effect to its liabilities. We use equation (A.154) to calculate the induced
new bond prices Q0, Q∗
0 (note that when δ > 0, the increase in foreign interest rates reduces the
present value of liabilities in foreign currency term), and (7) to calculate the new real exchange
rate Q0. Together with our calibration of fY, this determines ap
0 via equation (A.155) and therefore
the magnitude of the valuation effect.
Investment through the government balance sheet. With the assumption of equal portfo-
lios made above, the valuation effects are distributed in the population according to their holdings
of assets. One possibility to quantify the effect of alternative distribution rules is to assume differ-
ent exogenous portfolio distributions, for instance taken from the data as in Auclert and Rognlie
(2018). Here, we follow a simpler route, which is to assume that the government holds the coun-
try’s gross currency exposure, and rebates it according to various schemes. We add a government,
with Bt−1 coupons in real debt, ΛG
t−1 coupons in domestic nominal assets and ΛG∗
t−1 coupons in
foreign nominal assets. Its budget constraint is
−PtBt + QtΛG′
t + EtQ∗
t ΛG∗′
t = PtTt − (1 + rt−1) PtBt−1 + (1 + δQt) ΛG
t−1 + Et (1 + δQ∗
t ) ΛG∗
t−1
(A.157)
where Tt are aggregate taxes. We distribute those taxes by modifying the household budget con-
straint (9) to read
PFt
Pt
cF + PHt
Pt
cH + a′ = ap + eWt
Pt
Nt − Tt
e1−λ
E [e1−λ]
A-51

===== PAGE 103 =====
Figure A.4: Calibrating fY
1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 2015
Year
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80Percent
Share of liabilities in foreign currency
Advanced countries
Emerging countries
Developing countries
−100 −50 0 50 100
FX Assets - Liabilities/ GDP in percent
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0cdf
Net currency mismatch across countries
1994
2017
Mexico
Note: The left panel shows the fraction of liabilities denominated in foreign currency as a share of total
liabilities, on average across advanced, emerging and developing countries, respectively. The right panel
shows the distribution, in a set of 50 countries, of the difference between foreign currency assets and liabili-
ties (“gross currency mismatch”), as a share of GDP . Source: Bénétrix et al. (2020), updating an earlier study
by Lane and Shambaugh (2010).
λ = 1 represents lump-sum taxes, while λ = 0 are proportional taxes. The higher λ, the more
regressive the tax system is.
In steady state, we assume that B = T = 0 but the government holds a gross position fYY
in domestic assets, financed by borrowing in foreign assets. After the aggregate shock occurs,
government debt evolves according to the fiscal rule
Bt = ρB

Bt−1 + fYY
 Et
Et−1
1 + δQ∗
t
Q∗
t−1(1 + πt) − 1 + δQt
Qt−1(1 + πt)

where the terms in brackets represent the valuation effects from gross positions after the aggregate
shock, which are positive at t = 0 and null for t > 0. When ρB = 0, through (A.157), the govern-
ment immediately must adjust taxes to shore up its balance sheet loss from foreign liabilities after
a depreciation. When ρB > 0, the government builds up debt and taxes later, which mitigates the
immediate effect on spending.
Calibrating δ and fY. To calibrate the couponδ, we note that the duration of a bond with price
(A.154) is given by
D = 1 + i
1 + i − δ
We calibrate δ to hit a liability duration of D = 18 quarters, as implied by Doepke and Schneider
(2006)’s estimates for the U.S.
We calibrate fY to data on from Lane and Shambaugh (2010) and Bénétrix et al. (2020). Lane
and Shambaugh (2010) documented aggregate foreign currency exposures for 1994 to 2004 for a
sample of 117 counties; Bénétrix et al. (2020) subsequently updated their data to 2017 for a sample
of 50 countries. These studies measure foreign currency exposure as the difference between county
i’s gross foreign currency assets and gross foreign currency liabilities.60 The right panel of figure
60Lane and Shambaugh (2010)’s headline measure of currency exposure for country i at time t, FX AGG
it ,
A-52

===== PAGE 104 =====
Baseline Gross positions Gov, lump-sum Gov, proportional tax Gov, deficit-finance
dY0 0.31 0.23 0.03 0.16 0.19
∑3
t=0 dYt 1.38 1.17 0.86 1.05 1.08
Note: this table replicates the exercise from table 4 in our quantitative model with a static trade elasticity.
Table A.2: Balance sheet effects with static trade elasticity χ = 1
A.4 shows the distribution of these currency exposures, normalized by GDP , from the most recent
study by Bénétrix et al. (2020). As emphasized by these authors, countries have dramatically
reduced the aggregate currency mismatch in their balance sheets since the 1990s: for instance,
while Mexico used to have around 25% more foreign currency liabilities than assets as a share of
its GDP , it now has around 5% more foreign currency assets than liabilities (the left panel illustrates
that this has tended to happen via a reduction in the fraction of the share of liabilities that are in
foreign currency.) In the latest 2017 data, only three countries in the dataset have foreign currency
liabilities exceeding assets by more than 40% of GDP: Tunisia (-63%), Egypt (-44%) and Sri Lanka
(-40%). In our exercise of section 5.6, we set fY = −50%. This calibration therefore represents an
upper bound on the size of valuation effects.
Balance sheet effects with static trade elasticity We now perform a similar exercise than
in section 5.6 but in the quantitative model with a static trade elasticity equal to χ = 1. The
results, reported in table A.2, show that currency mismatch by itself does not cause a contraction
in output following a depreciation. Thus, it is the interaction of currency mismatch and the real
income channel that causes contractions.
D.7 Quantitative model with alternative Taylor rules
Figure A.5 replicates figure 8 with a Taylor rule based on producer prices, as in Galí and Mona-
celli (2005). The results show that the contraction is even larger when monetary policy targets
producer prices because the real interest rate increases more after the depreciation. This addi-
tional contractionary monetary policy shock reduces consumption and output further relative to
our quantitative model.
D.8 Quantitative model with representative agent
Figure A.6 replicates figure 8 with a representative agent. The results show that the depreciation
generates a boom in the model with a representative agent whereas it generates a contraction in
the model with heterogeneous agents.
E Alternative models
This appendix presents extensions of our baseline HA-IM model. Appendix E.1 derives a version
of the model with dollar currency pricing and shows that it dampens expenditure switching by
is normalized by the sum of assets and liabilities, but the supplementary data in both Lane and Shambaugh
(2010) and Bénétrix et al. (2020) report measures normalized by GDP , which correspond exactly to ourfY.
A-53

===== PAGE 105 =====
Figure A.5: Contractionary depreciations with alternative Taylor rules
0 5 10 15 20 25 30
−0.3
−0.2
−0.1
0.0
0.1
0.2
Percent of Yss
Output
Taylor rule with CPI inﬂation
Taylor rule with PPI inﬂation
0 5 10 15 20 25 30
−0.4
−0.3
−0.2
−0.1
0.0
0.1
Consumption
0 5 10 15 20 25 30
−0.02
−0.01
0.00
0.01
0.02
0.03
0.04
0.05
Real interest rate
Note: impulse response in the quantitative model to the shock to ι∗
t from figure 2.
Figure A.6: Contractionary depreciations with representative agent
0 5 10 15 20 25 30
Quarters
−0.10
−0.05
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
Percent of Yss
Output
HA
RA
0 5 10 15 20 25 30
Quarters
−0.20
−0.15
−0.10
−0.05
0.00
0.05
0.10
Consumption
Note: impulse response in the quantitative model to the shock to ι∗
t from figure 2.
A-54

===== PAGE 106 =====
foreign households but also stimulates the profits of exporters. As a result, dollar currency pricing
can either increase or lower the response of output to a depreciation.
Next, we present three extensions of our baseline model, which we show can be reinterpreted
as versions of our baseline model with different parameters. Appendix E.2 adds produced non-
tradable goods in addition to tradable goods. Appendix E.3 adds imported intermediate goods.
Both of these can be directly reinterpreted as our baseline model with an appropriate reparameter-
ization of the openness parameter α and the elasticity of substitution between home and foreign
goods η. Appendix E.4 considers a tradable-nontradable model of a commodity exporter, which
takes as given the price of exports. We show that in the standard case where a fixed quantity of
tradables (commodities) is being produced each period, akin to a fixed endowment of tradable
goods, this can be reinterpreted as our model with dollar currency pricing.
Finally, E.5 presents a version of the model with UIP deviations. We derive a new interpreta-
tion to i∗ shocks, and allow for a potential feedback effect from changes in the net foreign asset
position to the real exchange rate.
E.1 Dollar currency pricing
We have seen that the degree of expenditure switching crucially influences whether a depreciation
is expansionary in the HA model. One reason for a weaker expenditure switching channel is the
prevalence of dollar (or dominant) currency pricing (DCP). With DCP , exports are invoiced in
dollars. This means that export prices do not immediately adjust in response to exchange rate
fluctuations (Gopinath, 2016), limiting the response of export demand (Gopinath et al., 2020).
To explore the effects of DCP for our baseline model, we replace equation (17) with P∗
Ht =
P∗
H. Hence, all exports are invoiced in dollars, and for simplicity these dollar prices are fixed. 61
This influences our analysis in two ways. First, it lowers the trade elasticity χ from η(1 − α) +
γ to simply η(1 − α): the volume of export demand no longer responds to a depreciation. We
refer to this as the “standard effect” of DCP . Second, domestic firms’ markups on exports are
now endogenous to the exchange rate: after a depreciation, markups increase, raising profits via
equation (15).62 These profits are earned by domestic shareholders, generating a positive effect on
spending. We refer to this as the “profit effect” of DCP . In an economy in which firms perfectly
hedge exchange rate fluctuations, the profit effect would be absent.
To investigate the role of the two effects of DCP , figure A.7 compares the output response to a
depreciation under PCP to the responses under DCP with (i) only the standard effect and (ii) both
effects. The left panel shows the case of larger elasticitiesη = γ = 1/(2 − α), chosen to give χ = 1.
Here, the standard DCP effect causes a large reduction in the output response, as it effectively
sets γ to zero. Elasticities are already small in the right panel so that the standard effect of DCP
reduces the output response only mildly.
In both panels, the profit effect is positive for output, as asset owners spend some of the addi-
tional profit earned on exports. In the version of the HA model here, the profit effect is sufficiently
large to push the output response above zero even with small elasticities. The reason for this is
that the model considered here has relatively large MPCs out of capital gains. A two-account
model, such as that considered in Kaplan et al. (2018) or Auclert et al. (2024a) would meaningfully
reduce the profit effect. We leave a thorough analysis of this effect for future research.
61In section 5 we relax this assumption by allowing for dynamic adjustment of the dollar price.
62Barbiero (2021) empirically documents these foreign-exchange-induced variations in the profits of
French firms that price in foreign currency.
A-55

===== PAGE 107 =====
Figure A.7: Capital outflows under dollar currency pricing
0 5 10 15 20 25 30
Quarters
−0.1
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
Change in output dYt (percent of s.s.)
η = γ = 1/(2 − α)
PCP
DCP - standard effect
DCP - standard effect and proﬁt effect
0 5 10 15 20 25 30
Quarters
−0.25
−0.20
−0.15
−0.10
−0.05
0.00
0.05
0.10
η = γ = 0.1/(2 − α)
Note: impulse responses to the shock to ι∗
t from figure 2. PCP corresponds to producer currency pricing, DCP to dollar currency
pricing. The standard (reduced expenditure switching) and the profit effect are discussed in the main text.
To shed further analytical light on the two effects, consider a one-time depreciation dQ0. For
any given agent i, the depreciation causes a reduction in real wage income of 1
µ ei0, where ei0 is the
idiosyncratic productivity of agenti at date 0, and it raises real dividend income by1
µ
ai0
Ass
where ai0
Ass
is the wealth owned by agent i relative to mean wealth. Let us define the net exchange rate exposure
NXE i of agent i by
NXE i ≡
 ai0
Ass
− ei0

· 1
µ (A.158)
We show below that the impact output response is then given by
dY0 = α
1 − α χdQ0 + αCov (MPCi, NXE i) dQ0 + (1 − α) ∑
s≥0
M0,sdYs (A.159)
Compared with (38), we see that the real income channel is now given by the cross-sectional co-
variance of MPCs and net exchange rate exposures. In our model, this covariance is endogenously
negative, since firms’ shareholders tend to be richer and have lower MPCs than agents who pre-
dominantly rely on labor income. Our model thus provides a micro-founded counterpart to Díaz-
Alejandro (1963) and Krugman and Taylor (1978), who previously discussed this mechanism in
the context of IS-LM models. We regard measuring net exchange rate exposures such as (A.158) in
the data, and analyzing their aggregate implications using equation (A.159), as a very promising
avenue for future research.
In commodity exporting countries, exchange rate depreciations also create a profit effect: they
raise the domestic price at which commodity exporting firms sell, so that depreciations redis-
tribute from workers, whose real income falls, to the owners of these firms. Appendix E.4 proves
that there is, in fact, a formal analogy: by reinterpreting α and χ, a model with produced nontrad-
ables and endowed tradables (e.g. commodities) is exactly equivalent to the model with DCP and
fixed dollar prices studied here.
Derivation of equation (A.159). Consider a one-time depreciation dQ0. This affects real in-
come in period s by
d
 PHs
Ps
Ys

= − α
1 − α1{s=0}dQ0 + dYs
A-56

===== PAGE 108 =====
The effects on labor income is then simply
d
Ws
Ps
Ns

= 1
µ d
 PHs
Ps
Ys

= − α
1 − α1{s=0}
1
µ dQ0 + 1
µ dYs
while the effect on dividends (15) is given by
dDs = − α
1 − α1{s=0}

1 − 1
µ

dQ0 +

1 − 1
µ

dYs + α
1 − α1{s=0}dQ0 (A.160)
where the last term captures increased markups on exports that emerge with DCP . Following the
steps in section C.1, we see that, by definition of Mt,s, the total date-0 consumption response to
{dYs} is given by ∑s≥0 M0,sdYs.
To obtain the date-0 consumption response to dQ0 (the real income channel at date 0), denote
by MPCi agent i’s date-0 MPC out of a transitory date-0 transfer. Note that agent i’s exposure to
dQ0 depends on its initial income state ei0 (its share of labor income) and initial share of wealth
ai0
Ass
, multiplied by the aggregate changes in labor income and dividends respectively. We collect
these terms in an object we call net exchange rate exposure NXE i,
α
1 − α NXE i ≡ ai0
Ass
· 1
µ
α
1 − α − ei0 · 1
µ
α
1 − α =
 ai0
Ass
− ei0

· 1
µ
α
1 − α
The total date-0 consumption response is then
dC0 = α
1 − α E [MPCi · NXE i] · dQ0 + ∑
s≥0
M0,sdYs
Observe that net exchange rate exposures average to zero,E[NXE i] = 0, so thatE [MPCi · NXE i] =
Cov (MPCi, NXE i). Substituting dC0 into the linearized goods market clearing condition (A.77),
we find (A.159).
International Keynesian cross with DCP . We can also derive a version of the (general-
ized) international Keynesian cross (44) with DCP . The main differences with the derivation in
appendix C.1 are that expenditure switching by foreign households is absent, as if γ = 0, but
there is an additional term entering dividends, as in (A.160),
dD = α
1 − α
1
µ dQ +

1 − 1
µ

dY
The change in the ex-post return at date 0 then becomes
dr0 = J′
rdr + J′
d

1 − 1
µ

dY + α
1 − α
1
µ dQ

A-57

===== PAGE 109 =====
Following the same steps as before, we then end up at
dY = (1 − α)
 
Cr + CvJ′
r

dr| {z }
intertemporal subst. + valuation
+ αηdQ|{z}
expenditure switching
− α
 1
µ CY − 1
µ CvJ′
d

| {z }
real income
dQ + (1 − α)
 1
µ CY +

1 − 1
µ

CvJ′
d

dY
| {z }
multiplier effect
which is almost the same expression as before, except for reduced expenditure switching and real
income channels. To interpret this equation, we define Mr, M as before, but also define Mw ≡ CY
as the (intertemporal) MPCs out of labor income, and MD ≡ CvJ′
d as the (intertemporal) MPCs
out of dividends. Then, the international Keynesian cross decomposition for the DCP model is
dY = (1 − α) Mrdr| {z }
int. subst + valuation
+ αηdQ|{z}
D expenditure switching
− α
µ

Mw − MD

| {z }
real income
dQ + (1 − α) M| {z }
Multiplier effect
dY (A.161)
E.2 Nontradable goods
We first add nontradable goods to the model. Instead of (3), assume that household consumption
is now an aggregate between tradable goods and (home-produced) nontradable goods,
c =
h
ϕ1/ζc(ζ−1)/ζ
T + (1 − ϕ)1/ζc(ζ−1)/ζ
H,NT
iζ/(ζ−1)
(A.162)
where the tradable bundle is a mix of imported tradables and home-produced tradable goods,
cT =
h
α1/ηc(η−1)/η
F + (1 − α)1/ηc(η−1)/η
H,T
iη/(η−1)
(A.163)
Here, ϕ is the tradable share, while 1 − α is home bias within tradables; ζ is the elasticity of substi-
tution between tradables and nontradables (which is plausibly quite low), while η is the elasticity
of substitution between home and foreign goods within tradables. For this section, we assume
that the production functions for tradables and nontradables are identical, so that they always
have the same price, and that all that matters is the sum of cH,T and cH,NT.
With this demand system, total demand for home goods coming domestic residents is
cH ≡ cH,T + cH,NT =
 
(1 − α)
 PH
PT
−η
ϕ
 PT
P
−ζ
+ (1 − ϕ)
 PH
P
−ζ!
c (A.164)
At the steady state where all prices are 1, the overall home and foreign shares of consumption are
therefore cH
c = (1 − α)ϕ + (1 − ϕ) ≡ 1 − ¯α; cF
c = αϕ ≡ ¯α (A.165)
In response to a shock to prices around the steady state, we log-linearize and find that this relative
demand changes by
ˆcH − ˆc = − (1 − α)ϕ
(1 − α)ϕ + (1 − ϕ) (η( ˆpH − ˆpT) + ζ( ˆpT − ˆp)) − 1 − ϕ
(1 − α)ϕ + (1 − ϕ) ζ( ˆpH − ˆp) (A.166)
A-58

===== PAGE 110 =====
Noting that ˆp = ϕ ˆpT + (1 − ϕ) ˆpH, we can write
ˆpH − ˆpT = ϕ−1( ˆpH − ˆp)
ˆpT − ˆp = −ϕ−1(1 − ϕ)( ˆpH − ˆp)
and substitute these into (A.166) to obtain
− ˆcH − ˆc
ˆpH − ˆp = (1 − α)ϕ
(1 − α)ϕ + (1 − ϕ) (ηϕ −1 − ζϕ −1(1 − ϕ)) + 1 − ϕ
(1 − α)ϕ + (1 − ϕ) ζ
= (1 − α)η + (1 − ϕ)αζ
(1 − α) + (1 − ϕ)α ≡ ¯η (A.167)
Note that the elasticity ¯η in (A.167) is a weighted average of the primitive elasticities η and ζ.
Define the consumption aggregator function ¯c(cF, cH) to maximize c subject to (A.162), (A.163)
and cH = cH,T + cH,NT. It is immediate that this has constant returns to scale. We can view total
foreign and home consumption (as calculated above) as optimizing this function subject to prices
PF and PH.
For steady-state PF = PH = P = 1, we found cF and cH in (A.165), with ¯α = αϕ the steady-state
foreign share and 1− ¯α the home share. In (A.167) we calculated the local elasticity of substitution
of the consumption aggregator function, ¯η.
To first order in aggregate shocks, therefore, our model remains the same when nontradables
are introduced; we need only replace the openness parameter α and elasticity of substitution be-
tween home and foreign goods η with their counterparts ¯α and ¯η in (A.165) and (A.167). 63 The
two implications of this equivalence mapping are the following.
First, the import-to-GDP ratio is now cF
c = αϕ = α. Hence, even in the presence of nontrad-
ables, it is appropriate to calibrate α to that ratio.
Second, ¯η is a weighted average of η (elasticity between home and foreign within tradables,
which could be relatively high) and ζ (the elasticity between nontradable and tradable, which
could plausibly be much lower), with a larger weight on ζ when the nontradable share is higher.
Hence, ¯η itself could plausibly be relatively low.
E.3 Imported intermediates
We now return to the consumption basket in (3), but change the production structure to allow for
imported intermediate goods. Specifically, suppose that the continuum of firms in each country
now produce an intermediate good X using the technology X = ZN, and that the final good
Y in each country is a CES aggregate of the country’s own intermediate good and the foreign
intermediate good.
Concretely, for the home country, suppose that production of the final good is given by
Y =
h
ϕ1/ζX(ζ−1)/ζ
F + (1 − ϕ)1/ζX(ζ−1)/ζ
H
iζ/(ζ−1)
(A.168)
where XH is the home country’s demand for the home intermediate, andXF is the home country’s
demand for imported intermediates. Suppose further that XF (analogous to cF) is a CES aggregate
63The problem of allocating within cF between different countries’ varieties is unchanged; the elasticity
there remains γ.
A-59

===== PAGE 111 =====
of each other country’s intermediate, with elasticity ν. As before, normalize all prices and quan-
tities at the steady state to 1, and assume that foreign prices and quantities do not change. Note
that a country’s total value added, or GDP , equals itsX.
It follows that total demand for the home country’s intermediateX is
X = (1 − ϕ)
 PX
H
PH
−ζ
Y + ϕ
 PX
H
E
−ν
Y∗ (A.169)
where demand for Y is the same as before
Y = (1 − α)
 PH
P
−η
C + α
 PH
E
−γ
C∗ (A.170)
Equations (A.11) and (A.12) continue to hold, replacing Y by X and PH by PX
H. Totally differenti-
ating (A.169), we get
dX = −(1 − ϕ)(1 − α)η(dPH − dP) − (1 − ϕ)αγ(dPH − dE )
−(1 − ϕ)ζ(dPX
H − dPH) − ϕν(dPX
H − dE ) + (1 − ϕ)(1 − α)dC (A.171)
As in appendix B.1, linearizing the CPI equation, we have dP = ( 1 − α)dPH + αdE. Linearizing
the price index corresponding to (A.168), we get dPH = (1 − ϕ)dPX
H + ϕdE.
Writing all the relative prices in (A.171) in terms of the real exchange rate dQ = dE − dP, we
have
dPH − dP = − α
1 − α dQ
dPH − dE = − 1
1 − α dQ
dPX
H − dPH = ϕ
1 − ϕ (dPH − dE ) = − ϕ
1 − ϕ
1
1 − α dQ
dPX
H − dE = 1
1 − ϕ (dPH − dE ) = − 1
1 − ϕ
1
1 − α dQ
and can plug this into (A.171) to obtain
dX =

(1 − ϕ)αη + (1 − ϕ) α
1 − α γ + ϕζ 1
1 − α + ϕ
1 − ϕ ν 1
1 − α

dQ + (1 − ϕ)(1 − α)dC (A.172)
If we define ¯α ≡ 1 − (1 − ϕ)(1 − α), and ¯χ ≡ 1−¯α
¯α

(1 − ϕ)αη + (1 − ϕ) α
1−α γ + ϕζ 1
1−α + ϕ
1−ϕ ν 1
1−α

,
then (A.172) becomes just
dX = ¯α
1 − ¯α ¯χdQ + (1 − ¯α)dC (A.173)
which is identical to equation (A.80) in appendix B.2, but with¯α, ¯χ, and dX replacing α, χ, and dY.
With these substitutions, the International Keynesian Cross remains the same, and our analysis in
the main body of the paper goes through. The two implications of this equivalence mapping are
the following.
First, α = α + ϕ − αϕ, while the import-to-GDP ratio is α + ϕ. Hence, provided α and ϕ are
not too large, α is close to the import-to-GDP ratio, though an ideal calibration would subtract the
reexported good-to-GDP ratio αϕ.
A-60

===== PAGE 112 =====
Second, the trade elasticity ¯χ is now a more complex amalgam of four primitive elasticities:
substitution between home and foreign final goods η, substitution between different countries’
final goods γ, substitution between home and foreign intermediates ζ, and substitution between
different countries’ intermediatesν.
E.4 Commodity exporter model
As our last alternative model, we consider a model of a commodity exporter, who takes as given
the price of tradable goods. We set this up as in Uribe and Schmitt-Grohé (2017), by assuming
that the economy possesses a constant stream of tradable goods YT that it can sell in the world
market at fixed prices. Vice versa, there are non-tradable goods that the economy does not export.
We describe the main changes in this economy relative to the one in section 2 and argue that this
model is identical to the DCP model in section E.1 in which dollar prices of exports are fully rigid.
Households. Domestic households are assumed to behave as in section 2, except that they con-
sume tradable and non-tradable goods, rather than foreign and domestic goods.PTt is the price of
tradables and PNt is the price of non-tradables. The utility functionu (cT, cN) is the same as before,
with cT and cN entering a CES basket with elasticity η and a consumption share of tradables of α,
analogous to (3). The CPI is analogous to (4), individual demands analogous to (10)–(11). Foreign
households elastically buy or sell tradables at a fixed dollar price P∗
T = 1.
Production. Non-tradables are produced using the linear production function
YNt = ZNNNt
and sold by a continuum of firms charging flexible prices at a markup µ . NNt is labor demand by
non-tradable producers. Tradables are produced by the Leontief production function
YTt = ZT min{NTt, L} (A.174)
where L > 0 is a fixed factor the country is endowed with, such as the land on which natural
resources can be found. Again we assume YTt is sold by a continuum of firms charging flexible
prices at a markup µ . NTt is labor demand by tradable producers.
We assume here that (A.174) is Leontief in line with the idea that tradables are basically an
endowment of the economy,YTt = ZTL = const. The only reason why we do not outright assume
that YTt is an endowment is that in a heterogeneous-agent context, it matters whose endowment
YTt is. (A.174) provides us with a simple way to split the proceeds from selling YTt into labor and
profit income.
Rest of the model. All the remaining model ingredients are identical. For example, all firms’
dividends (tradable and non-tradable alike)
Dt = PNtYNt − WtNNt
Pt
+ EtP∗
TYTt − WtNTt
Pt
are capitalized and traded, just like domestic firms’ dividends before. Unions and wage stickiness,
notation for exchange rates, market structure, and monetary policy are all identical.
Market clearing for non-tradable goods is given by
YNt = (1 − α)
 PNt
Pt
−η
Ct (A.175)
A-61

===== PAGE 113 =====
essentially (33) without the second term, as non-tradable goods are not exported. We normalize
all prices Ess, Qss, Pss, PNss, PTss to 1, and quantities Css = 1, YNss = 1 − α, YTss = α in the steady
state of the model.
Consumption function. We can write consumption as function of real labor income and divi-
dends Ct = Ct
n
Ws
Ps
Ns, Ds
o
just like before.
Model analysis and equivalence to DCP model. Define real GDP as
Yt ≡ PTss
Pss
YTt + PNss
Pss
YNt = YT + YNt
We can write dividends as
Dt = PNtYt − WtNt
Pt
+ EtP∗
T − PNt
Pt
α (A.176)
which is identical to (15) in the case of DCP with fully rigid dollar export prices, where C∗
H = α
and P∗
H = P∗
T = 1. Just like before, aggregate labor income is given by
Wt
Pt
Nt = 1
µ
PNt
Pt
Yt (A.177)
Rewriting (A.175), we find that
Yt = (1 − α)
 PNt
Pt
−η
Ct + α (A.178)
which is identical to the goods market clearing condition (33) with DCP . Given that (A.176)–(A.178)
are the same as in the model with DCP (section E.1), and the consumption function is unchanged,
this proves that the model with tradable and non-tradable goods is isomorphic to the DCP model.
International Keynesian cross. Due to the equivalence with the DCP model, we can derive an
international Keynesian cross decomposition for the commodity exporter model that is analogous
to (A.161). For a similar decomposition of the RA consumption response in a version of the com-
modity exporter model see Bianchi and Coulibaly (2023).
E.5 UIP deviations
We consider a version of our model in which we allow for deviations in the UIP condition. In par-
ticular, we assume that households cannot directly hold positions in foreign bonds. Instead, there
exist foreign intermediaries that can trade in both foreign and domestic bond markets. Denote the
end-of-period positions of these intermediaries bybI
t . We assume that foreign intermediaries have
an imperfectly elastic demand for domestic bonds, that is,
bI
t = 1
Γ

(1 + ιt)
 Et
Et+1

− (1 + ι∗
t )

Such imperfect elasticity can be microfounded by assuming that there is only a limited number
of foreign intermediaries (of similar measure as the small open economy itself) and that foreign
intermediaries face limited commitment (Gabaix and Maggiori 2015), risk (Itskhoki and Mukhin
2021) or adjustment costs (Alvarez, Atkeson and Kehoe 2009, Fanelli and Straub 2021). These
microfoundations are identical for our purposes.
In addition to foreign intermediaries, we also allow for noise traders with exogenous demand
A-62

===== PAGE 114 =====
ξt for domestic bonds as in Gabaix and Maggiori (2015) and Itskhoki and Mukhin (2021). To-
gether, foreign intermediaries and noise traders hold the inverse of the country’s net foreign asset
position,
bI
t + ξt = −nfat
Rearranging, this implies that the UIP condition (5) no longer holds whenever Γ > 0
(1 + ιt)
 Et
Et+1

= 1 + ι∗
t − Γ (ξt + nfat) (A.179)
The dependence on the NFA in (A.179) captures the idea that the country has to pay a premium
when it is a net borrower nfa t < 0, in terms of a greater interest rate ιt. The dependence on ξt
captures the idea that noise shocks can also move exchange rates.64
In the limit where Γ → 0, we recover the UIP condition (5). On the other hand if, as in Itskhoki
and Mukhin (2021), we simultaneously assume Γ → 0 but Γξt ̸→ 0, we obtain a version of (A.179)
with exogenous UIP shocks
(1 + ιt)
 Et
Et+1

= 1 + ι∗
t − Γξt
Observe that those shocks enter in exactly the same way as the world interest rate shocks 1+ ι∗
t =
1
β∗
Bt
Bt+1
that we introduced via discount factor shocks Bt in section 2. In that sense, our analysis for
ι∗
t shocks carries over to exogenous UIP shocks, by simply redefining ι∗
t ≡ ι∗
t − Γξt.
Endogenous UIP deviations. We now study the effects of endogenous UIP deviations (A.179)
with ξt = 0, as in Gabaix and Maggiori (2015) and Itskhoki and Mukhin (2021). The UIP condition
becomes
(1 + ιt)
 Et
Et+1

= 1 + ι∗
t − Γ · nfat
Figure A.8 simulates an ι∗
t shock in our quantitative model with endogenous UIP deviations.
As before, the shock depreciates the exchange rate and leads to increased domestic interest rates
ιt. As the NFA declines due to greater import prices, however, foreign intermediaries require
even higher domestic interest rates ιt, captured by a more positive UIP deviation −Γnfat. This
amplifies the exchange rate depreciation and ultimately worsens the contractionary effects of the
depreciation. Thus, endogenous UIP deviations amplify contractionary depreciations, especially
in countries with high Γ. This presents another reason why interest rates may be procyclical in
open economies, especially in emerging markets prone to having greater UIP deviations.
64An alternative way to think of noise shocks is as movements in risk premia.
A-63

===== PAGE 115 =====
Figure A.8: Depreciations with endogenous UIP deviations
0 5 10 15 20 25 30
Quarters
0.00
0.25
0.50
0.75
1.00
1.25
1.50
1.75Percent of s.s.
Real exchange rate
UIP
Endogenous UIP deviation
0 5 10 15 20 25 30
Quarters
−0.25
−0.20
−0.15
−0.10
−0.05
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
Output
0 5 10 15 20 25 30
Quarters
−3.0
−2.5
−2.0
−1.5
−1.0
−0.5
0.0
NFA
Note: impulse response to the shock to ι∗
t from figure 2. The green line shows the impulse in the quantitative model (UIP) while the
blue dotted line shows the impulse in the model with endogenous UIP deviations.
A-64